This is a great game, though I still don't understand why you can't draft military cards like you can civil. For a game where you have so much control, and military is so overpowered, the luck of the draw can really mess you up.  I've played this almost exclusively at BGO, so I'm not sure how high I would rank this if I had to play face to face and wait to play, which I can avoid with a turn-based online game.
Excellent game. Hours of fun. Best with 2 or 3 players. Highly recommend it!
Exactly what an updated edition of a classic should do. Wonderful game.
One of the best games I ever played. Building economy, arms racing, planning how to get ahead of opponent victory point and everything what strategy games needed are included. It also has game-ish entertainment, a solid strategy can be beaten by opportunistic flexibility differ from Chess or Go. Only problem is it is too heavy to recommend to my friends and even for me.
I love this game but good lord it's long. My favourite 2p game, will never play with 4.
I've only played the app, and don't really want to play the real game, because the app is so nice and quick.
Masterpiece. One of the best game I've ever played. It has strategy, theme, interaction, lots of cards for replay value.  I haven't got a chance to play the original version of the game, but I wanted for a long time. Now I'm glad I did not, because this is an improved version of the game in every aspect.  Only downside is downtime, since every player has many actions during a turn. Also, long play time can be considered a downside - average 3 player game for us lasts around 4.5 to 5 hours - but when you have time to invest, that time invested is an upside to the game because of a very rewarding experience.  Update: average 3 player game now lasts only for about 2.5 to 3 hours tops, since now we all know what we are doing. With 4th player added, it can go to 5 hours easily. Great experience with 4, but huge time investment :)
Played once, and ordered it right away. Rating based on one play. Very exciting in that "can hardly sit still" kind of way.  Theme and mechanisms are well integrated, which means that I find it accessible despite its obvious weight.  Got rid of the game while purging some non-soloable stuff. A great game, but the only friend that's interested in playing it has his own copy...
Own the [boardgame=280833]New Leaders and Wonders[/boardgame] expansion.
For a 4 hour game, there's too much randomness in it... It can be really frustrating!
For me, it's too cumbersome as a classic boardgame, but it's awesome on pc/tablet 
Vlaada's best work in my opinion.  A truly engaging civilization builder.  This version smooths off most of the rough edges of the earlier edition.
Grande, largo, duro y juegazo con todas las letras. Y lo mejor de todo es su "simplicidad".
Great game that is deserving of it's reputation, but not really for me. I give it high praise for doing such a great job of capturing the epic scope of a civilisation game using only card drafting. Sadly I find Through the Ages too long and punishing to want to play much, even with the app. Probably because the skill curve is too high for me, that I never really feel like I am getting better at the game. I have also found player counts over 2 to have too much bottom feeding, resulting in the player behind in military to be constantly attacked and never having enough resources to catch up.
Learned how to play using the app on an iPad which was fun. The actual, physical board game?  It felt like a slog and we only played a couple of turns.
Brilliant and unforgiving, with a ton of depth. Through the Ages strikes a unique balance between uncertainty and strategy. The introduction of random situations adds complexity to decision-making, requiring players to navigate fuzzy outcomes and react accordingly. Interaction is key in, players can actively disrupt opponents and achieve success at the expense of others, creating a dynamic and engaging gameplay experience.
Продавам/заменям за 80 лева.  Ревю - http://bigboxgamers.com/through-the-ages-a-new-story-of-civilization-review/
I cannot imagine a game much better than this.  I love the depth, the decisions, the management.  It is very well done.  My favorite game! 
He tenido la oportunidad de probarlo en BGO, basicamente soluciona casi todos los problemas que tenía el juego y lo equilibra. Yo creo que han logrado crear el juego más cercano a la perfección que existe para mi. 10/10
Just a bit too hard to teach and have a good time playing. The action point system also slows down the game and feels antiquated.
Such a massive improvement over Civilization (2010).
Awards & Honors  2015 Meeples' Choice Nominee  2015 Golden Geek Board Game of the Year Nominee  2015 Golden Geek Best Strategy Board Game Nominee 
2016-06-23 (rating 9.5):  Even better than the previous version ([gameid=25613]). Looking forward for new cards expansions!
I believe this is a perfect game. It accomplishes what it sets out to do, and does it in a perfectly satisfying and fun way. For having no map, it somehow completely delivers the same feeling that Sid Meier's Civilization (VG) does. It's odd to think that such a "dry" theme, with abstract boards and cards would have such a strong thematic feel to it, but Through the Ages pulls it off admirably. I really love this game. It's not my favorite game, but I have zero complaints about it and see it as always engaging.
Notes: From BGG auction. Box is scuffed, bottom damaged. Paid too much for shipping.
There is so much to love about this, but also several huge negatives.  + Great feeling of engine building and managing a civilization + Deep and immersive gameplay + Lots of combos and strategies to try out + Great replayability  + I love the civ theme  - The biggest negative by far is the down time between turns.  I feel like action selection is a dead mechanic (at least when each player does many actions in a row).  By the end of the game each player has about a dozen actions per turn! - No map - While I love the theme, the theme is quite abstracted - Rules, rules, rules, many of which aren't intuitive and/or thematic - Ganging up on and bashing the last place player - Lots of bookkeeping Perhaps too much luck of the draw with the military deck and order cards come out in (need to play more to decide) Perhaps too military-focused even with the changes from the old edition (need to play more to decide)  One of the few games I'd rather play online than in real life.  I'm still trying to decide if this game is a masterpiece or madness.  Right now I'm somewhere in between.
Rating based on digital play.  I have learned the actual game play, but have not completed a full in person play.
After a few plays, I do really like this one. It is very much a civ game with a unique feel and complexity. It is however extremely long - 4+ hours at least for 2-3 players. I've not had a game less than 5 hours with 3 players. Although you do continue to advance, turns are slow. You can pounce on the weakest player using military too which can be brutal. So need more plays to get a better feeling overall. So far, very good!
A fantastic civilization builder with great balance between civilian and military choices. Its basically not a 10 because of the boatload of time involved with set up and break down.
Incredibly heavy, but very rewarding. I'd recommending playing it with 2, as it is very long with 4.... 
Would be a 10 If the board was a single piece, box was smaller and there was less upkeep.
The best boardgame you should never put on your table. The rating is 10 for the app and 5 for live game. It is unbearably long and unforgiving. Sometimes you have to continue playing for another 3 hours without any chance to win, or even worse, you may have a disfunctioning economy which hardly allows you build anything in the second half of the game.  Still, a landmark design for the few, who wants play an accounting-heavy civilization game for PC on a table. 
Sleeved with Sleeve Kings - Sails-of-Glory - (50 x 75mm) - 329 cards   every unsleeved card was exchanged through addon and is not used anymore (put into Neue Anführer und Wunder)
This is much better on first play than the original.  Somehow though, it still didn't quite float my boat.  There are lot of games I'd rather play.
Very good game, covers whole history of civilization, you can learn new historical figures, gameplay is also big fun, it is competetive, I recommend it. If you liked this game I also recommend expansion New Leader and Wonders, it not just adds new leaders and wonders, but also rebalances game.
A very nice and well-organized "abstraction" of history. I.e. you don't move around specific units of build specific cities like the other games, it is all abstracted to a very, very high level. It sounds off-putting, but actually works surprisingly well.   The biggest drawback for me is that even the smallest action requires a lot of time to move all of the parts, so there's A LOT of downtime. It is probably the only game that I'd rather play on mobile than on the table, even if I play with somebody in person.
Figuring the game out is a blast, however I feel that it wears down with repeated plays - only so many strategies and effective combinations.
Played two live games and both left me with a sour taste in my mouth. The game is very long, harsh and unforgiving.  Early misktakes (or bad luck) will haunt the player for the entire game. The mechanics encourages players to whack on the weakest, leaving him/her with no way to recover and be the obvious target for next turns.  After several dozens of games on the digital version, I have figured how not to become that person and started to enjoy playing this game.  I would still advise most gamers I know against playing this live on a real board.
Substracting a world map from a civ sim gives this an appearance as gripping as a driving school lecture book. But this abstractation of mankind's civilization (Western Europe's, to be honest) really works.  My major criticism is the limitation of options (declaring wars!) by sheer luck of the draw. Also be aware that this game presents a misanthropic and bellicist view on mankind (as Sid Meier's Civilization series does) that one should always reflect!
Base game 2-3 players 4.3 Weight 240 min  Action Point Allowance
We previously played nations so this is more of a comparison but we enjoyed this one a little more even though they are both excellent. The event system where we place the politics cards that later become the events in the future is so clever. You know what you put in but the game night change by the time it's revealed. Military didn't feel much different in nations as you could easily add or remove as you needed to scale up. I'm through the ages everything is tight and a lot more difficult to build up. It takes so many more turns and your focus is divided in more places. You have the same set of 4 actions and 2 military you can work with each round. I also like the variable length tied to how often the cards are purchased. The full game looks to add even more layers to make military more important than the into game. The components are nice and I thought it was going to be pretty fiddly but I didn't find it to bad. The most fiddly aspect is sliding the cards on every turn but the cubes as resources are pretty smooth. There's so much I could say about every aspect from leaders, territories, how all the tracks felt important but I'm trying to keep it short. We diverged quite quickly in strategies but yet ended up close in score. One drawback is the long player turn times, there is good sized checklist of everything you have to do in your turn and although there is not a huge amount of interaction that halts your plans it still takes time to do the process. In the end nations feels like a streamline easier weight nation building game where this one is certain at the other end. It feels like your building something and you watch it evolve and become better. I can't wait to see age iii cards and play the full version.
This is a tough game to rate at even 5 plays. It has a ton of depth and the mechanics are solid, but it feels like it's missing the magic that I expected from one of the top rated games of all time. 
Not bad but some issues in the mechanics that can cause huge frustration and ruin the experience!
Military seems to be too overpowered at the end of the game. Game was nice. I can't deny that. However duration is so long that I propably won't end playing this again. That is what lowers the score quite a lot. Game was good but I'm just not a fan of long games. This game has earned its rank 3 but I don't personally see much situations when I would play this.
Best game that I ever played up to now. The game is lengthy and kinda heavy but it doesn't scare me off. I like the depth of resources management, and how you build your civilization to perfect everything off. Would like to play this all the time! Been in poison in BGA now.
Lungo, a volte lunghissimo, senza la scenografica composizione di un territorio da esplorare, conquistare e sfruttare per progredire al meglio e con un (doppio) regolamento che spaventa i più.  Meglio girarne al largo quindi? Macchè!  Un 10 pieno per questo gioco che, personalmente, mi ha fatto sentire più di ogni altro provato, sul tema, quel senso di crescita e sviluppo della propria civiltà attraverso un meccanismo molto semplice, nelle regole, quanto complesso e gratificante, nel saperlo gestire. E' fondamentalmente un gioco di carte (che scorrono su un display comune), con una profondità incredibile e una varietà di scelte che permette sviluppi sempre differenti.  Questa è la mia scelta per un gioco di civilizzazione corposo, altrimenti un perfetto "concentrato" sul tema è The Golden Ages di Luigi Ferrini.
My favourite civ game. Intimidating in the beginning but after a few plays the rules make sense. It's a rewarding experience if you manage to finish all 3 ages.
Excellent game. Well designed. My only concern is that it takes a lot of time to play so this is not for every occasion.
Like the flow of the game; when and why to concentrate on which resource, what path to take and when/why change it. Fiddly, lots of little bits. Tough to come from behind at 3 or 4 players so the game can falter later on. Think I prefer the app, especially with 4 players.
Масштабная стратегия Сквозь Века — очередной хит от Влади Хватила — полюбилась многим опытным игрокам во всем мире. Прекрасно настроенной баланс, который шлифовался почти десятилетие. А за внешней простотой и понятностью скрывается такая уйма возможностей, что каждый раз вы будете открывать для себя что-то новое. Сквозь Века занимает второе место среди всех настолок в мире и первое место среди игр цивилизационного типа.
Civ game with a lot interesting choices by Vlaada Chvátil. I prefer the App.  # Quite samey over time (similar to Nations) # Prone to analysis paralysis # Medium replayability: most cards are played every game in different order - Very long
必须满分啊！为了玩这个游戏查了半天字典，我也是蛮拼的哈哈哈！真的是巨作，思考量非常大，但是如果没发展均衡，中后期基本就无力回天了！
Too long at 4 players, too potentially mean with take-that war cards.
Very interesting civ game, like 7 Wonders on steroids (in a good way).  Knowing the deck is required to do really well against competitive opponents, but you can still play and have fun until they explode for 100 points in the last few turns.  The replayability comes from the decks and the random order of things.  No new governments come out until the end of an age?  Better shift your strategy to account for having fewer actions.  There are some basic foundations that still hold every game (everyone needs ore and science), but specific ways to accomplish those are varied and can depend upon the card draw.  I'd gladly play this again, but not sure that I would want to invest in the time to play it repeatedly and memorize the deck.  Not quite the type of player interaction I'm looking for at the moment.
Having played this only digitally I am thankful as I could only expect that it would take much longer in person for all the card movements that happen.  This game does have some cool mechanics and a spread of things like production, technology, military, and historical leaders.  To me the greatest downfall is that each player is subjected to the whims of card draws.  Needing science but the players before you grabbed up the science production cards, well you are out of luck.  Now without a better science production you can't easily upgrade your materials production, or your military.
Sleeved: Swan Panasia Games 52mm x 74mm (Thick)  Mit Erweiterung Neue Anführer und Wunder  Dachboden: Inlay BSKA-3
My favourite board game of all time. No other game have me captivated like this one. I always feel involved when I play it, which is impressive bearing in mind that the game have such a long playtime. Always looking forward to the next session of this epic brain burner.
Replayable, outstanding and unforgetable game. Best of vlaada
I have played it mostly online (I do not register those games). It presents several improvements compared to the original TtA, which I already considered a very good game. Still, it needs 3 or 4 hours to play and is very fiddly.
Mecánica:9 Temática:7.5 Aspecto/Presencia:7.5 Rejugabilidad:8.5 Duración: 6.5  Nota: 7.8  Nanoreseña: es un juegazo. Lo unico negativo es la duracion y el refresco de acciones cada turno. Juego para jugar en online. Pero que quede claro que es un pepinazo!  Viabilidad en solitario:-  (Opinión tras 2 partidas)
Despite its big scope and multiple ways of building up your civilization this turned out to be a boring multiplayer solitaire.
The perfect civ game. Just that. Who cares about time when playing This One?  Perfect
Too complex and heavy to ever be brought to the table. Rules are also very difficult to grasp, and there is so much going on that you won't be able to pick it up and play unless your opponent is already an experienced TTA player.
This game has so many options that it makes for excellent replayability. I only ever play two-players and it's extremely fun.
Own digital version. Very good civilization game. Could be great with shorter playing time and less fiddliness. Digital version offers both but ... it is digital so not that great. 8.5/7.5 digital/board game
The previous TTA was a 9, excellent Civ builder, and a game I will play almost any time. The only strikes against it were the randomish military draw/balance and the length. Length in and of itself was not a mark against the game, just limited how often I could play it.  This version streamlines some of the length issues, and addresses and rebalances a bunch of other things, based on data from lots and lots of plays. The changes to how military is handled are subtle but genius. As a result, the only reason I wouldn't play this game is if I don't have the time at that session. Flawless game.
Guys, I love the original TTA, but this one got even better. The military aspect of the original game played a huge role on the game, that's why I rated it a 9, but it is really fixed on the new TTA. Sure the military path has it's reward, but it is more difficult to play an aggression or a war, and there is no more holy war, the devastating card that can put an entire well developed civilization on the stone age again.  All the changes I've seem are better than the original game, the cards are more attractive, even the usually skipped theocracy is now a good card to pick. The changes in rule are for better for sure. It is a genuine 10, one of my favorite games of all time even better.  Almost forgot, the art of this version is much much better from the original TTA.
Very beautiful game, I cannot find the words for explaining myself, but excellent is OK.
Convoluted. Nice try. And I like heavy strategy games but this is not fun.
:cry: :D :D :) After lots of effort adapting to the take-that style that I don't like, I find this frustrating as well but for different reasons... you cannot play from behind as well in this version. 
Took a great game and make balance upgrades to it, rules upgrades regarding combat and corruption, and made more of the leaders viable.    Its not very different than original TTA, but the changes are an upgrade.
Smart game. An age of empires offline. Excellent design and strategic gameplay.
It's actually quite good, do enjoy the occasional play online.  But it's simply too fiddly and time-consuming to justify a real life game; there are better games at that game length (or simply playing multiple shorter games).
This is absolutely fantastic game. Lots of strategies and ways to win. Very deep. The only disadvantage is the length.
Too long. This board game is really better playing it on a Tablet.
I am willing to play this every once in a while. It takes a lot of time to play and there is some serious down time between turns.
An excellent game that is much easier to play on iOS or BGA.
329c (50 x 75 Z) (50 x 73)  Through the Ages = Nations =
touted as apex of 4x games, but downsides of downtime and complexity.
Potential Civ genre game for us. Low priority. Maybe if I found a crazy deal.
Simply - the most ingenious game I've ever tried. It would seem that there is nothing but 2 card decks and colored cubes, but in TtA every single action is absolutely logical and has a deep enough meaning behind it. It's a game where every decision you make exclusively and strongly affects the final balance of power.   One more good point is the digital version with excellent AI, which allows you to try out certain strategies. However, it's still better with live players, even if party takes more than 4-5 hours.
45 euro su amazon [storico-civilizzazione] 2-4 giocatori un po' random
Tried with player counts: 1-3 Prime counts: 2 > 3 > 1  Without exp-s: 9.9 New Leaders and Wonders: 10.0  Peak rating: 10.0 Lowest rating: 9.4  Owned in: App Store, Steam
I guess we all want this game to be a little nicer to look at - it is ugly, but that does not detract from the exciting, strategic civilisation building at the core of the game. I’m always happy to play this and it remains tense after many plays. Having only played 2 player, I have not tried many competitive tactics, so I am excited to try higher player counts to experience the game more fully.
TTA is one of my all-time favourite games, and the new version is great due to the updated cards.  However, I hate the multiple point tracking boards and really miss the single central board from the original game.
Dynamic, hefty game. There's a lot of depth here.  Ultimately, as someone who likes direct player conflict, I think the game forces military to be a little bit too central. If you don't get the right compositions for your army, theres no real way around being behind at this singular aspect of the game.  Too long at four and getting up there at 3 (though the app plays 4 wonderfully). Boils down to be a 2-3 player game I think it just alright.  Don't get me wrong, the game is good, but I don't think it's quite as good as the BGG rating would suggest.
Very consistent, fun, heavy and well balanced. Yet it's strange to play a civilization game without a map.
Really hard game to learn, but after a while you get the hang on it and turns to be a very enjoyable game. Takes a long time but even if you don't finish it feels very entertaining, probably one of my favorite Management game.
Christmas gift from T&L. "Best with 3" 2+ hours, complex
An improved masterpiece, if this is possible. Bravo, Mr. Chvatil!
Fantastic design. Extremely tight. I have only played 2 player and it would be hard to convince me to play with higher player count. It takes 2-3 games until the maintenance is acceptable. My favorite heavy game. 
This is a great game that would never have hit the table. I'd rather play it using the app; takes a lot of the fiddliness away and I can get a game done in 20 minutes. 
BGA. Nearly played the physical version like the original. Thought it might be better digitally, good enough
A very engrossing game that feels shorter than the actual clock time indicates. I become more frustrated with the game the more I think about it as the card drafting is very basic and basically uninteresting, so the game ends up being individual maximization exercises. The best mechanic in the game is military, which provides a reason for players to compete indirectly (and sometimes directly), really shaking things up a bit. Thematically, this game is a blast, especially when you get fun combos like a Fundamentalist militaristic society lead by Charlie Chaplain, or a Theocratic empire first dominated by military in Genghis Khan, but then led by Isaac Newton and focusing on science. Wacky!
Fantastic game, so much fun and interaction. Quite long though!
Impressively designed game of sustainable growth with some hand management and a fun drafting mechanic.  What I like best is that you can accumulate points in a variety of ways without having the scoring devolve into a "points salad."  There's a victory track visible all game long, and you can plan accordingly.  Unlike a typical Rosenberg or Feld game, you aren't going to spend minutes tallying up points after the final round, and you aren't forced to diversify your approach in order to win.  It plays somewhat long, and the first few games might be awkward with a lot of down time as players take their turns, but this is fun and challenging game.
A great engine building game with lots of actions choice and forecast planning required. Always need to balance between economy and military makes it interesting
The main drawback for me is the playing time. If you leave that aside it's the best thing you can play in having a civilization before you without a map! A masterpiece from Vlaada and it's even better with the expansion!
I'm at a loss for words. It's a superbly designed game. The balance is impressive. Even without catchup mechanisms, you can do surprisingly well coming in from last place. It does engine building well.  It's just not fun.
Fantastic game that I like to play more. The only downside is that it is a bit long.
have played the old one on boardgamearena and liked it, though i found the war to be to forcing at times and some cards unbalanced. heard the new version fixed those, sooo... buing it when the german version gets available
Excellent game, smart decisions to be taken upon everchanging cards on the table. Victory on the long run with strategy focus. Manages science, building, war and culture in a civilization! Outstanding game!
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1FDN2r59geZ5bkLR90iStcea1QCVxdDRy
Balázsnak megvan. Nem játszottam még vele olyan sokszor.
For 2006 - outstanding, for 2015-2023 - outdated, sorry. Too long, too fiddly, too repetative. The cards is quite boring, the theme is not there at all. Probably App version is felt better, I didn’t play.
I have never played a game where someone stomped on my Sand Castle more.  I won this game once, I immediately went to church to confess my sins.
11/15: A beautiful game, and I love the new tactics rule. I need to play this more to see how the other new rules play out; I'm hoping Vlaada hasn't balanced out the fun.  7/17: Dozens of plays later I'm happy to confirm this game is even better than the original, with no regressions. 
I've only played the app, but this is an exquisitely crafted game which is a real balancing act between all the things you need to do.  The downside is the length, which means I am not sure I would want to play a face-to-face game.
Once you get going, it's not as complicated as it looks. It's interesting... but I don't need it to be so long. Shorten the game a bit and I would be much more interested in playing it regularly.
When I got to the WBC tournament I found that war just blows the game away. I will never play it again.
The king of civ builders for me. The only downside is lengthy play time. Don't play 4 players if you want to finish in under 6 hours.
Awesome, epic game! Takes time to get into it and I am not into very long games...but this feels like time well spent. However, it is just tough to get to the table!
Too long, it drags in the last turns, would rather play other long games
Heavy Game :  - First game, 8 hours. But so deep, with so many great mechanism... one of the best game. - Second game, 6 hours. The war is not so well balanced and it might be the hardest way to win.
Way too long, nothing happening, too much maintenance, the civilisation does not go far... Boring.
Haven't played enough to feel like I fully get it, but I love it for the few times I have played it. I want to buy it, but the length and complexity means it likely wouldn't get played much. Too bad.
It's not a clean 10 just because of the expectations it set by comparison to the original title, otherwise a fine game which remains one of the best.
Yes, okay. It's good. Very good, indeed. The rules are learnable in under 10minutes, even though it has tons of depth, complexity and variability.  BUT..., i also think that it's too euro-ish for what should be mostly a thematic experience.
I played the old version long time ago, and now this revised version. I would really want to like the game, but each time I have had some issues due to missed or misunderstood rules. So, it’s hard to give a rating.  In the latest game, I was in deadlock due to too much food production and getting extra yellow cubes from the colonies to the yellow bank. This caused extra corruption, which I had to pay primarily with resources (not food, as stated in the rules). Due to lack of resources, I had nothing useful to do on my turn. I’m not sure if this was influenced by missing one discard of two yellow cubes by everyone from the bank in the end of one era. Anyway, the situation could be a source of a design fault. It would be very useful to be able to use food also for other purposes than purely to the increase of population, for example for building military units.
Need to sell my physical copy. The app version is amazingly good.
I've read about its predecessor for years and now have finally pulled the trigger. What amazing mechanics for a game.
Long, but if you got the time as good as it gets. [3]2-4
The game mechanics and game play certainly deserve a 10. Yet, the theme bothers me somewhat. The game is rushing through these Ages and combines the technologies of these in a strange (and I mean this in a negative) way. But besides that, the game is certainly one of the best I have ever played!
Really enjoy this game a lot, as an app. Do not like the war mechanism much at all though.
for me, same rating than the original. always amazing game but didn't get a lot better by this version. the best tweak for me is the re-designed corruption system. nice!  17.10.21 Still going VERY strong! After 10 years of gaming, still maybe the most immersive and intense game experience, but only if you have the time to play it.
It should be named :It takes Ages, A new story of Accounting. You do not build a civ, it doesn't feel that way at all. It plays like a football manager game. There are some good ideas in the game, but the duration plus the idiotic subsystems make it sub par. One of the most overrated games in BGG. It has one of the worse combat systems in a civ game that i have ever encountered.  FFG's out of print Sid Meyer's Civilization is better in many ways. Nations also scratches the same itch but it's a 30min per player game.   Also forgot to congratulate the new publisher on the serious component upgrade compared to the previous edition. CGE is one of the best companies in terms of cost to quality ratio.My hat is off to you!
Mechanisms are too specific to the game to remember between plays (over a year til it hits the table again).
Świętna. My czujemy klimat. To jest jedyna gra która zostanie ze mną najdłużej w kolekcji. Nigdy jej nie sprzedam.
Too much downtime and too much randomness in the card draw for my liking. Apart from that a great civ game.
Pretty good game! But far, far too long for the experience it offers. I'm too old for epic, weekend-long ordeals when I can get the same experience with a shorter, tighter game. 
A difficult and fascinating game, best at 3p. Everything seems SO terribly important and yet there's no way you can do it all. This game has an exceptional digital version too, if that's your thing. In fact I might even recommend the app over the board game, blasphemous though that may seem, unless you have exactly the right group. A player who doesn't know the game well or who suffers from AP will slow it to a crawl, and a player who gets ahead of themselves without doing things in a strict order can easily get lost in the upkeep.
Very good game, but too long and mechanisms feel "old"/fiddly cubes
This is one of my personal favorites.  This game is so deep and it's so rare for me to love a game that is 4+ hours.  A true feeling of going through ages / building a civilization.  Brilliant!! I had to get rid of it however due to length of play and never being able to get it to the table :( 
Set-Up/Tear Down (x1)   9/10 Teachability (x1)   8/10 Art and Components (x1)   8/10 Game Length (x1)   7/10 Replayability (x1)   8/10   Mechanically Engaging (x2)  9/10   Overall Enjoyment (x3)   10/10    Total:     8.8
Changes between second and this third edition are all very welcome. Replacing the discs for cubes is wonderful just in itself. Larger cards, better artwork, slight rules changes, and an easier to manage blue bank (particularly at the end of a turn) are all fantastic. Long and dry but a good civilization game. Unfortunately has a problem with once you're down - either through unfortunate decisions or being the target of wars or aggressions - you're pretty much down for the entire game and it becomes a death spiral. Got picked on once and had your much needed resources taken? Guess who's screwed for the rest of the game because you're now the easy target for every future war and aggression and will never recover from it! There is no chance of recovery from it and the game becomes torturous to play.
Doesn't seems bad, but it is a long game and you need to play it many times in order to master it. Buy it only if you know you can build up a gaming group that is willing to play this one over and over!
Bad manual with incomprehensible descriptions; - leaves interpretations open Very long downtime with more than 2 players - Frustrated after 3 hours of play. Terrraforming Mars / Underwater Cities are far better
P: 2-4 / 3 A: 14+ W: 4.43 T: 120' G: Strategy (Auctions)
I should probably start by saying and have a soft spot for long strategy games and grew up playing the computer game civilization.  That out of the way there have been various games in this genre with different degree of depth, complexity and replayability. Through the ages is great in being a very balanced mix in all these regards.   First off there is no "one strategy to beat them all" as there is in other titles (e.g. the boardgame civilization based on civ4 is skewed towards military victory in my opinion).  Through random chance of deck drawing and interaction with the other players no two games look alike.   Initially the rules might be quite a lot to take in, but you quickly get used to them.  I do admit the mobile version is easier to play, but there's nothing that beats interacting with the other players around the actual board game even if you have to count cubes of various colors yourself :)
Fantastic game, and, for me, soloable. This is #1 on our group's playlist.  Rulebooks: 5/10 Beautiful and detailed, but without indexing (!!!) and very confusingly split between the "intro" book and the smaller main rulebook.  Endless leafing back and forth between books and sections, looking for the answers (which are almost always there, SOMEWHERE).  Figurines: 7/10  Mix of plastic cubes and wooden markers; unsophisticated and the required stickers were infuriating to apply.  Gameplay.  Great fun if you enjoy complex strategy choices and resource management.  Infinitely replayable.  Expansion interesting but not necessary.  Soloable - just apply different priorities to each card (eg: blue card = science; red = warfare, etc)  Update Jan 2023 - still in our top 3 games after several years! Some of us prefer tabletop, others prefer the iPad version.
The original version was my favorite game of all time in 2011.  Now, eight years later, I see the shortcomings - so, so fiddly, takes a long time, and really needs all the players to be an equal skill level to keep things interesting.  I still love it, though.
Great game, mechanisms really interlock greatly with each other, a lot of depth and strategy.
Update: Logged 24 games of this now, mostly on Boardgaming-Online.  Played a number of 2P and 3P games and definitely find that 3P is the sweet spot.  I'm constantly amazed at how tactical/strategic the game is and how deep the game really is.    10/10.  Fixes all of the problems I had with the first Through the Ages.  I can't wiat to get this on the table more!
Through the Ages is an outstanding game. Its very well balanced, has high replayability value and offers a lot of strategic and tactical descisions. Its a lot better balanced than the previous edition, due to the change of the Napoleon card and the redesign of the war/raid mechanics. Its a tense gamefeeling, where you absolutely feel as if you are building your own civilization over the course of the time. What is really interesting is the trouble-shooting aspect in every single round. Every play you do has its own opportunity cost, so you are forced to think about to pick your best move and to balance out your civilization or to start switching to mass culture Porduction in the end game. Another interesting aspect are the different combos of cards (like Hanging gardens + basilica + michaelangelo) and how it effects your late game strategy (in this case going more on military to pressure your opponent, so you can prevent him from catching up later).   A slight con might be the long playtime for new players and higher player counts (4 players), because it can really drag on then. But the game absolutely catches the theme and I'm glad to have this game in my collection. 
Das beste Zivilisationsspiel überhaupt. Kartenbasiert und ohne globale Ausbreitung, dafür wird alle Infrastruktur einbezogenen
There are different cards that cycle through as the ages move on, but it seems to lack meaningful decisions. 
I just can't grasp this game and I always forget moving the little pegs when things happen.  3 turns later I will suddenly remember.  This and Twilight Struggle are the most mysterious high ranked games on BGG, as I just don't run into people that worship it like a top-10 game. 
Dueño: Paco  • Hay 2 copias, una de ellas es la versión antigua, en español.
Okay, the design of this game is just sublime. It is very well  balanced and every card in this game can be a part of a viable strategy. I really love the way the military part of the game works, its somehow appealing to both those liking player interaction and those not. The game can drag into 3-4 hours (maybe more)of gaming sessions,  but after you finish, you feel that you ve done so many things. Thats because every turn doesnt take much time and on the contrary every player just takes multiple turns per session.  +exceptional design +tough decisions +good player interaction +many paths to victory +wellwritten rulebook -the hours needed to invest on this game -rules at first may seem overwhelming, but after 1-2 plays are easy to remember  
Love this game. I play the digital version because I found it hard to get the physical version to the table. 
They did it. This version is astounding, and so is the app.
The first game takes twice as long... after that still on the higher. Games are not going to finish in 2 hours...  This is a definite improvement over the last release version. Streamlining some of the military issues and improving the resource tracking are definitely nice. With very many minor tweaks.    
Played only online but prefer over the original one
Very deep strategy game, with simple actions. Very long games.
Un juego fascinante, tiene una temática muy sencilla de comprender, sin embargo cada acción realizada determina mucho el progreso de la civilización futura.
I actually think the app is what is awesome about this game. I think it would be too much work to play as an actual board game (and too slow). As an app though, the computer automates all the tedious tasks. There are a lot of deep and interesting choices and every game is going to be at least somewhat different, and I would say the best player is going to win at least 80-90 percent of the time (people think there is a lot of luck, but I would say it really isn't too bad). One of the most brilliant card games. 
No me llevo bien con los civs, especialmente los que son muy muy pero muy largos. Trate varias veces de aprenderlo pero nunca llego a escuchar una explicacion completa, simplemente no me atrae lo suficiente como para jugarlo :shrug:
The civilization-building experience in card form. Very strategic, although it becomes more difficult to plan at higher player counts. Lots to think about on each turn, and very satisfying to build up your empire. Each game plays totally different and requires thinking on your feet. A lot of accounting required to play the physical version, but the digital version is very streamlined.
More than any other engine builder, slight increases to your engine feel extremely rewarding.  The broad span of history as a setting matches the feeling of development marvelously.  However I find that it lacks replayability, and generally we found the same strategies worked consistently without much reward for innovation.
This new edition looks superior to the earlier one, but that is the only comparison I am qualified to make. Great game where you are surging forward through history, the different ages represented as a sort of parade of cards that you're buying from. Lots of checks and balances in this game, managing corruption, preventing uprisings, deciding when to take military actions against other players, and I love the thematic abilities of the many leader cards, wonders etc that will be visiting you in the lineup. The events are also neat, how you're adding them for future turns, really ups the strategy. Not my favorite Vlaada game, but it might creep up there with future plays, because it is substantial and I've barely cracked the surface.
2021/02/05: Downgraded. The more I play this the more it seems that military drives everything else, especially towards the end.   2020/05/27: Downloaded the automa files for playing solo. 2016/12/10: Still a classic.  Somewhat improved, but I still lose horribly at this.  Don't buy the older edition unless it's a lot cheaper.
Attempted to learn the rules but it was trial to get my head around. The digital version of the game is excellent and does most of the rule tracking for you, so I would recommend getting that version instead of the boardgame.
Yes it is long, yes it is has nice ideas. Yes, the war mechanics are fun. But damn, why does it stay the same game for all it's duration? Why is the second playthrough exactly the same?
Was my favorite game I'd ever played before the rebalancing. Update to corruption, hero balancing, and tactics sharing had made what I thought was the perfect game better. Balancing food, resources, population, Science, tech, military, culture, and happiness gives me a ton to think about and many paths to victory. Every year, I wish for an expansion to this game. The revision will do.
I loved this game! There is so much going on and it is such an excellent game that builds up so well. The only issue is how long it takes to play it. 
Game was too long for what it was, if I play again and things are quicker my rating may go up.
The biggest problem with this game is how long it takes. I love the civ building and the engine building and the leaders. It's complex, but all the elements have a purpose. It has puzzle elements, in that I need to figure out how to accomplish I want with limited resources. 
The changes, although well-received, don't alter my main issue - this game is too abstract for me to invest in it.
Good game. Problem though, I feel like I should mark this down to average because any game that gets completely replaced by the app..... something is wrong with the design of the actual physical game. The game is too fiddle-tastic, a nightmare of book keeping that prolongs a game that is really just about intelligent card purchasing through the conveyor belt. Which card to purchase is a very difficult decision which is why people love this game, but it makes the game far more tactical than what people think.
a perfect design from my favorite designer. Each game is developping completly different, love it with two players.
Rebalanced and fixes all the issues with the previous. A must own.
Loses a half point because of duration, but an excellent game, even for one such as myself who doesn't usually like games lasting more than a couple of hours.
A good enough civ game, but just far too long for what it is. Comes from an age when Civ mechanics where transformed very literally into cardboard, wood and plastic form and suffers for it.
uno dei migliori giochi in assoluto, se non fosse per la durata veramente un po' troppo lunga merierebbe un 10 e lode!
Fantastic game.  Probably my favorite game in my collection.  It's a bear to teach and there is a lot of accounting, but i would never turn down an opportunity to play.
This is an absolutely brilliant card-drafting engine-building game. There is a plethora of interesting tactical and strategic decisions. Everything has consequences and the game bombards you with tons of concrete information to make informed decisions. Randomness is limited and when it does exist, it is controlled (auction/drafting mechanic) and/or player driven (events). But what I love most about this game is it feels like your walking a tight-rope; you want to optimize your engine but you want to be able to respond to possible aggressions from the other players. Thus, the game is quite interactive and builds tension by forcing players to make tough decisions on how they should distribute their finite resources.   This latest edition changes the artwork, balances some cards, and makes some minor rules changes. Overall, it feels like a more polished version of the classical game. But I strongly recommend players purchase/play this version. Some of the minor rule changes (e.g. when military cards are discards) actually make a profound change in the game (e.g. reducing AP). And the rebalancing of warfare still keeps that element influential but prevents the 2-player game from being dominated by that element.   Brilliant game. Love it! I've played this game a dozen times and want to play it more.
Excellent, meaty Euro-game. What can deter some people is its length  - one can get easily lost in time and 6 hours went by....immersive experience really and the theme is really strong and enjoyable
https://www.sleeveyourgames.com/sleeves/3823/through-the-ages-a-new-story-of-civilization?basegame=true&expansions=6910 - 450 (7126)
Excellent game. The interlocking of mechanics between resource buildings, urban buildings, wonders and leaders is exceptional. The card drafting thing is enjoyable, but with one flaw. If you play it 4-5 times, you understand exactly which cards are gonna come and when, so you plan your strategy from turn one, until the end, waiting for specific things. Especially if you play with new players it's no fun for anyone. But until you figure out the above thing you spend hours of fun.
Rating for the physical board game, based on how fiddly it is and downtime. I would rather play “Nations”. However, the TtA app is great!
There's quite a few civilization games out there, but most are either a too simplistic abstraction, or something so complex it feels as if you were playing a [family=4958][/family] computer game and having to make all calculations a computer does. These latter ones get boring quickly for that very same reason, so I'd rather play a [family=4958][/family] game instead.  What [thing=182028][/thing] does instead is getting rid of the map and other cumbersome elements (which, if you like them like I do, you can let a computer decide on some other great video game), and instead focusing on advancements, resource management and politics. And the end result is a really awesome experience, taking just 2 hours of your time.  The most fun part is, though, that the mechanisms involved are not just another "civ-like" bunch of rules, but an actual interesting take on drafting, resource management and action management. The civ part is there for theming (and it's done here nearly perfectly), and the mechanisms are simple enough, yet quite compelling.  If you're interested in this game, however, make sure you get this version. The old one had a few cumbersome features that made me rather dislike it (and I even hesitated a bit before trying this one out).
Not for the casual gamer.  Lots of rules but ultimately a rewarding experience. Excelent game design.   Lots of plays on IOS app.
One of the best games out there. TTA is nicley balanced and a must have for everyone who likes thoughtful play and strategy games!
would rate it better if it would not favor the leading player in to many ways, if your loosing its really hard to even out the score, else a brilliant game
Granddaddy of the Modern Epic Euro  This one offers horrible (in a good way) choices from turn one and doesn't let up until hours later when everyone is sweating and mumbling curses.  If you have the strength to get through some of the more finicky rules (STILL not sure if we're ever playing Happiness right...), you will enjoy the hell out of this game.
If my usual opponent didn't get so frustrated whilst playing against me and it was a shorter game, this would probably be an 8-9 game for me... Alas, runaway leaders and down time between turns means this will hardly be played.
Ugyanazt a lehengerlő játékélményt adja, mint a régi TTA, de vannak dolgok, amik még jobbak. Először is sokkal szebb az új játék. Másodszor sok dolog életszerűbb lett. Pl. a különböző értékek korlátozásai megszűntek, a háborúban és agressziónál a seregek beáldozása megszűnt, a taktikák másolhatók, stb. Harmadsorban logikusabb és kicsit letisztultabb is az új tálalás, az ikonozás felhasználóbarátabb, pl. a kártyapaklis kis táblán, és a kártyákon lévő redundanciák is megszűntek. Amit nem értek, hogy miért kellett 5 felé bontani a fő táblát. Sokkal több helyet foglal így! Összességében egy amúgy is szuper játékot még jobbá sikerült varázsolni. Bár nem szeretem a klónokat, ez a 2.0 tetszik. Mert igaz hogy csak 2% az eltérés, és igaz, hogy aki az eredeti szabálykönyvet ismeri, annak elég átolvasni, hogy mi az a 10-12 apróság, ami változott, mégis... szerintem érdemi változások is vannak. Aki a régit szereti, az próbálja ki! Forradalmi újítást nem talál, de azért más lett, főleg a háború és az agresszió. A 2 személyes játék továbbra sem rövid:) A szabály 1 óra volt, a játék 4 és fél óra:) De rövidíthető szerintem 2-3 órára. Állítólag a 4 személyes határozottan rövidebb, mint a régiben, mert kevesebb a 4 fős kártya. --- 3 db 2 főset játszottam, mindet más emberrel, egyikük már játszott a régivel, a másikuk még nem ismerte, de amúgy sok száz játékot ismer, harmadikuk nagyon ritkán társasozik. Nos mindhárom parti pont 4 és fél órás volt, plusz a szabály, ami 30-40 perc. Most azt mondom, nehezen hiszem, hogy 3 és fél óránál hamarabb lemegy, a 3 fős pedig legalább 6 óra szerintem, a 4 fős meg 7-8:) A kártyasor elejéről több személynél sokkal kevesebb lap esik le, és több lap is van a paklikban.
Great game, very interestning mechanics, but the biggest gripe/problem is the downtime between players later in the game when people have a ton of cubes and upkeep to do. Stopped playing the physical edition because I prefer Nations as the physical game while playing a ton of TTA on the app.
App only! I am afraid of the bookkeeping but one day I am playing this game without electricity...   Till that day I enjoy the fantastic game play with lots of twist and turns or ways to victory on my screen. It feels like building up a civilization with a lot of tension. As a life long CIV fan I am not missing the area control aspects.   For my taste it is perfectly balanced between tactics and strategy. 
Fantastic game. I will change to a 10 once I've played the full game through to age IV  Very long but I felt like I was planning all through my opponents turns.  Thanks for the fun Scotty and Will.
Nice game and really good theme. But for playing the first time its hard to understand all the mechanics.
Extremely long game. First try with only Age A, I and II took more than 5 hours
My new favorite game. Elegant system. What a game!! Way too long. I bought the digital version. Sold my copy.
Cornerstone of my collection. Not much interest in playing with more than 2 players but absolutely love building my engine throughout the course of history. Super fun, thematic and surprisingly easy to learn.
Downtime is a huge problem. Gameplay seems to drag on.
The randomness of military cards can make or break the game. Sometimes the draws go your way, and you feel awesome for building a prospering civilization. But not getting just one card you want in the early game can cause you to constantly be beaten in conflicts by your opponent(s), dooming you to lagging ever behind, and not having fun at all for hours.
Best non-transferable to older edition changes are the leaders and wonders tweaks. Other rules changes could be easily trasnferred to older editions. I dislike the colourful artwork, preferred the older one. Still a 10.
Civilization game that manages to provide a proper Civ feeling without even featuring a board. Somewhat heavy on bookkeeping, and turns get really long towards the end, so you better come prepared.
Awesome game, so much strategy, so many options. 4 players took about 8 hours - only game I've played that long and loved it!!!!
Played it a few times years ago but remember it being very interesting albeit extremely long and heavy duty. This is a sit down in the morning/afternoon, full concentration, hard core game and definitely needs the right crowd to be enjoyed.
For the longer gaming experiences, TtA is hard to beat. Player interactions is perfectly balanced with management of your own civilization. Not for the lightweights.
This new story of civilization builds on its predecessor and refines an almost optimized game with a few tweaks to the decks and new graphic design and artwork. The final result is an epic game of civilization management, only marred by the fiddliness of the physical components and an upkeep that’s mentally exhausting: this is the only game I actually prefer to play in its digital version rather than on a table. Arguably the second best game designed by mr. Chvatil.
This is the best civilization game. Every aspect of the game is very well polished, it's the 3rd edition after all. All possible suggestions and problems reported by the community have been resolved by an add-on that is worth having while playing systematically.  The game has a well-written manual. It is even an example of how to write them. There are some rules, but there are also a lot of lighter games where there are many more rules. When it comes to the number of rules and learning the instructions, this is the average shelf. It really goes in one evening.  Despite the relatively simple rules (let's face it, it's not Patchwork, but it's not Mage Knight / Sword & Sorcery closer to Clans of Caledonia or any other average Euro game), there is a whole lot of combining, resources, cards, buildings, upgrades. This game is hard to become a champion, not to play.  A very good solution is the simplified, shortened version of the game, which allows you to introduce new players. It also allows you to play with people who do not like negative interaction as well as with those who are looking for it very much.  [edited: 30/12/2022] After more games and years in the collection, I only confirm what a good game it is. Digital versions have come out, but I love to move those colorful dice, feel the cards, etc.. The digital edition, despite all its advantages, is not it. I love playing it with 2 people because it's fast, I'd love to play it with 3 and 4 people because it's different. I will gladly play a short variant, as I have little time, with the focus only on points. I love military race in full gameplay. I'd rather play solo with two hands than with someone online.
Initial Impression: I've never played the original game but this remake is wonderfully streamlined. The artwork is colorful and I find that the complaints of "fiddlyness" to be untrue. Vlaada Chvátil has done it again. This is a compelling civ game with many interconnected mechanisms which leave the players with a feeling that there's so much they want to do but not enough time to accomplish everything. Every action is so precious. Striking the right balance between military might, population, happiness, resource production, and VP production is the dance that each player performs throughout the game. At its heart, it's a card game with no spacial element so can't claim to be a 4x game of any sort. Interaction is surprisingly direct, in which a player can use military actions to play cards in order to negatively interact with an opponent of their choosing. Personally, I like this as it allows the players to reel in a leader. The many card combinations make for some interesting aspects to explore in future sessions. I look forward to more plays of this game.
complex but exciting game. Very long on a tabletop, much faster with an I-pad
The king of civilization games. Through the ages is big and offers a good amount of complexity. I have played this game on both and table and the app and it is one of the few games where I prefer the app version over the physical version.
This is a game that provides players the ability to pursue a grand strategy. More importantly, it lets players sort through the numerous options and choose how they want to implement their strategy. Additionally, you need to be watchful over what the other players are doing to mitigate/maximize the effects of events and military.  The card play and hand building also provide another level of decisions, as you attempt to efficiently purchase cards. There's lots of engaging game play here--assuming you want to invest the time.   Game sessions also exhibit a good amount of variation. Admittedly, the players drive the variation, but the game's system facilitates the players' ability to choose different strategies and/or influence the progression of the game. The ability for the players to craft the event deck is an engaging way to increase variation between plays. The game, for all its repetition from turn to turn, does manage to provide an arc. While most of the arc is simply power creep, it is satisfying to see your "civilization" hammer out those final rounds and generate victory points (even if you lose).  Now, for a few neutral/negatives. One: the production is about as abstract as I'll allow a civ game to be. Also, I'm not a big fan of the aggression/war defense mechanisms, but they do what they intend to do: inject uncertainty to a player's decision to play aggression/war cards onto a weaker opponent. Those mechanisms just aren't very interesting (e.g., one player plays an aggression card and the other discards a card to neutralize it). The visual aspects of the game don't really convey a built civilization, though I'm more used to the civilization video games, which do a better job in that regard. Finally, downtime can be a beast. You will need a ton of plays before this plays smoothly. At 2 players it might not be too bad, but if you have 2 or 3 newer players for a 3 or 4 player session, downtime can be abysmal.  Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders (2020)
329 cards Mayday Sails of Glory - Orange/Yellow: Premium - 50x73mm
Played on iOS a bunch of times. I respect the design a lot (hence the 8), but it's a little too heavy for me... mostly got the feeling that I'd rather just be playing Civilization on PC. Could see how I'd feel different playing in person/with real people, but then again I don't know when or with who would commit to learning and playing this with me.
New design is just so much better and for me has allowed TTA's to recapture the crown as top Civ game.
Dozens of plays with the Android app, have owned physical copies of both the original and new editions for over a decade and never played in person but incredibly keen to when time allows.
2015 - 4.39 - #5 Aesthetics - 7.5 Components - 7.5 Concept - 8.5 Mechanisms - 8 Combined Total - 31.5/40
Almost as good as the original. I like some of the changes, like the new sequence involving corruption, but dislike the weakening of the military game.
UPDATE [8.6.17] Rating downgrade (-.5) to 8.5.  This is an engine building game with a civilization theme.  The engine building is the gem of this game.  The civ theme is too tacked on for me when compared to a game like Antiquity where you truly seem to be building a civilization.   [2.5.17] First Play.  3P Game.  Engrossing!  
Скучнейшая, абсолютно однообразная игра, которая длится целую бесконечность. Не понравилась никому в моей компании, хотя мы все заядлые настольщики и играем почти всегда в "тяжеляк". Большего разочарования мне не принесла ещё ни одна игра, слил без сожалений.
Amazing and unique board game experience. Absolutely love it, tense until the end, and awesome mechanics.
A wonderful civ game let down by awful downtime for 4 players as well as an unlucky card draw for Irrigation scuppering players progress.  Too long for the amount of fun returned.
The best version of Civilization available for board gaming. Stripping out the map is such a sensible but daring design choice. It means that you are always "bordering" every other player, and allows so much more scope for the card drafting, while allowing the game to finish in good time.
Perfect condition, only played a few times, real shame as I simply cannot get friends schedules to line up well enough to sit and enjoy this game!
Every choice you make has an impact on how your empire evolves. Managing your food and resources well is essential. End game scoring is a huge chore. Wars and agression can be crippling in the beginning. Just leave them out if you play with new players. The game is sadly a bit too long.
Long game but doesn't feel long (time passes fast). Not to Heavy after playing 1st game (played without wars or agressions). It took about 3 1/2 hours for the first game and maybe 2h45 for the second one. My wife has a lot a analysis paralysis on top of that! But I'm confident that we can play a game under 2h30-3h once we know the cards. The game is AWESOME. Lot of tough decisions to make. What I like the most is that it's not a race like a lot of games. You feel you have time to develop you civilization with carefull planning. You don't have to do all in one turn. Like Tom Vasel said in his review, you want to do everything and there are a lot a good decisions you can make. So far, one of my top games!
I played this not long after the second edition came out, and I remember the feeling of depth almost immediately. The limited and reliable card pool, the tightly bound systems of food, population and resources, the multiple routes to upgrade and choices about allocating workers, and then the regular prospect of battle and war - these all added up to a game where experience and planning have huge impact on how well you could do. I fondly remember the physical plays I have of this, the hours of concentration and thought. Wonderful.
I hated this game! Incredibly overly complicated for complication sake. It was just everyone doing their own thing and then every once in a while interest would conflict and then more cards and back to doing your own thing. You know what sucked the most? The game length. I got up from the table and just quit somewhere around 3 hours. The rest of the group was far from done. Screw this game!
I resisted buying this game for years.  What kind of civilization game has no map and is based entirely on cards?! The pictures of the first edition did little to kindle any excitement.  Spreadsheet the civilization game.  Finally, after hearing that Through the Ages was still the number 1 game on Edward's top 50 list at Heavy Cardboard, I decided to give it a shot.  Boy, am I glad I did.  Suffice it to say, this game is one of the most brain-burning, engrossing, elegant, and fun ways to spend an evening.  I love everything about it.  Add in the app, where I can play during lunch at work, and this is in my top 5 all time.  It's heavy.  It's beautiful. Go buy it.
3450 вб 4390 ВС 4990 низа RANK: OVERALL 8STRATEGY 8 Влад: в коллекции. Офигенная игра. Играет на телефоне. Если хочется сесть, разложить что-то фундаментальное. Эпичное, масштабное.  Фидлевая  Влад: ТОП-100 лучших игр 2019 Влад: место 42  Влад: ТОП-100 лучших игр 2020 Влад: место 43  Влад: ТОП-100 лучших игр 2020 Народ: место 21 (3.4)  Влад: ТОП-100 лучших игр 2021 Народ: место 45 (-24) (3.47)  Влад: ТОП-100 лучших игр 2021 Влад: место 42 (+1)  ЛНИ Сезон 1. Раунд 4
Très sympa mais très long pour la version physique. Aujourd'hui, j'y joue exclusivement sur l'appli Android, très bien faite, et avec bonheur.  De plus, je trouve le jeu assez mécanique et avec une interaction certes parfois violente mais assez peu intéressante (bagarre sur la rivière et comparaison de force militaire... bof).   J'y reviens tout de même avec plaisir et en me prenant toujours autant au jeu et à la compétition.  C'est un jeu à jouer, rejouer et encore rejouer pour le connaître et exploser ses adversaires. De plus, il est parfaitement équilibré.  Mais si vous recherchez un jeu où vous menez votre civilisation, avec ses moments de gloire et ses désastres, je pense que Clash of Cultures est bien plus indiqué. Plus court, plus vivant, plus... civilisation... bien qu'on ne traverse pas les âges!
[Oktober 2022] A long game, but exciting the whole time. It is just a satisfying tableau building puzzle. It is mostly a multiplayer solitaire though, although there is some player interaction with the war and pact cards.
This is my favorite 'no-board', board game. I'm normally not a fan of Civ-esque games that don't have a map board to visualize/expand on, but this one is done too well to not appreciate. Every turn you're on a tight rope as to what action you have to take and what can wait for the next turn. The corruption mechanic is done very well and really makes you think about when and how to use resources. This is a given but it's definitely a very heavy game, not so much in rules but strategy. Being as it is card driven the more you play the more you learn the cards and how to make the most of a specific strategy which makes it hard for beginners to compete especially if they get picked on by stronger military's. It does take awhile to play and downtime can be long between turns but you're quite focused on what everyone is doing and what you have to do on your next turn. It you like Civ games, heavy games, or card driven games this is a definite must-try.
Excellent card-driven civilization game, that scratches the core itch for sinking countless hours into Civ V.  Would be a 9/10:  - This plays 45 minutes on the computer but 3 hours on the table. The Euro mechanics feel like writing in Assembly. It's very hard to want to pull this out for a group of new players.
Even better than the original, with a few rule improvements and better graphic design. I think this compares nicely to the Sid Meier's Civ games. It accomplishes so much while avoiding the stereotypical map and miniatures. The various cubes can be fiddly. The choices you have on what cards to select and then what areas to focus on are very enjoyable. It takes several games before you know how to properly balance your needs as you pursue your goals. I think this game plays best at 2 or 3 players. Otherwise, it can be quite long.
Solid game. Runs longer than I would like, so I don't often feel like playing it. Waiting for other players to make moves can be long, tedious and boring.
It takes about 4 hours to play...unless people are very good at figuring out what they want to do.  If anyone in your gaming group suffers from analysis paralysis...don't play this game with them.
http://www.for2players.pl/2016/03/cywilizacja-poprzez-wieki-recenzja-gry.html
This game is a far superior civ simulation than Sid Meier's Civilization the Board Game. Iconography is meh, and using just one color cube for all natural resources is kind of a flaw, I think.
After first play: Wow.  I knew I would like this game, and it didn't disappoint.  I loved the Civ computer games as a kid and this game scratches all of those itches.  It is so fun to see your civilization grow and the design of the player board is so smart.  Half way through the first play everything fell into place as far as managing your resources and food.  The only knock against this is the length, but it is worth it.
Fun, but a table hog and I dislike the lack of a spatial element. 
Икона, про которую мне есть что сказать в плане претензий. Во-первых, длительность, конечно. Во-вторых, военная колода и система событий выглядят сбоку-припеку — этакие «колоды упущенных возможностей». В-третьих, неизящно и монотонно. В-четвертых, фиксированный набор лидеров и чудес (и стратегических связок, как следствие). Но при этом влияние игры переоценить, пожалуй, сложно. Вопрос только один — при столь удачном электронном варианте нужна ли дома коробка? Тем не менее доп призван решить одну из проблем, и его надо, несомненно, пробовать. 
Uno di quei giochi che non deve mancare nella propria collezione.
great game - only thing keeping it from a 9 is its length
Dear Gawd, we only made it through TWO ages...another soulless Euro/good design, though.
A super game: I just wish it didn't always come down to military might at the end. This could be mitigated if the aggressors in Wars/Aggressions had to lost military units to carry out his/her plans.
Such a well design, just a few rounds into the game I get sucked into it pretty hard.
I am horrible at this game! I just cannot seem to build a successful strategy. It is fun. I will play this with anyone who already knows how to play it and may be willing to help me build my skills a little bit.
Per Agza tra i 3 migliori con la meccanica Punti Azione di sempre
I love this game. Thick brain burning puzzle, quick level up, never the same game because the cards come up randomly, anticipating what your opponents are doing and reacting to that. Dose not get any better.
Easily the best game that I've played, and has so much replaybility built into it. I've introduced quite a few friends to it and like me, they have become hooked on this. Can't wait for the expansion cards and iPad version from CGE in 2017!   Currently am playing it multiple times with mates online. Highly recommended if you are into strategy/civilization type, deep thinking game. Only (minor) downside is the steep learning curve, but once you learnt how to play, you will find it hard to stop playing.
I like the civilization building aspect and it looks like it's a very thought-out design, but it's really hard to bring this to the table. There are games that are cute and fast, like rabbits, and games that are epic and majestic, like an elephant. This one's a beached whale.
Old version was a blast. This new version moves it to a next level of great game design. My absolute favourite game.
Excellent, excellent game. Replayability is unbelievable. The strategies are great. The expansion is also very good (played that on the app only at this point :( !)
Just brilliant, elegantly designed. I waited for this reprint for years and I love it 
[b]Primera partida[/b]  Sin estrenar  [b]Juego "on line"[/b] (10/10)  Todas las partidas jugadas "on line" (Unas 50 o más, pese a tener copia física), lo que hace la fase administratima más amigable. Una joya. 
It's been said that those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it. well i won the last game where joan of arc built the taj mahal so learn from that.  Have you ever wanted to play sid meiers civilization but didnt want to throw away the best years of your life hitting 'next turn'? Well this is the game for you. You'll be throwing away the best years of your life saying 'whose turn is it next?' instead since this game easily takes 5 hours.  As explained, you'll be guiding your civ 'through the ages' haha im so sorry. you have to keep track of all the fiddly bits yourself without a comp to handle it. Admittedly my favorite part of the game is where you shuffle some of the greatest luminaries, leaders, and wonders mankind has known into the TRASH. Fuck you shakespeare. 'much ado about nothing' sums up your legacy pretty well. the only time anyone ever reads your hack garbage is in ap lit. bye napoleon you fuck. Wat-er-looser amirite? psh who needs a code of laws? eiffel tower? more like ei-full-of-itself tower. Would not recommend to small children. quite complex and long. children may choke on the small pieces..and on the historical inaccuracy of this game.
From library. Somewhat better than the old version; looks nicer, too. The differences are minor, though and I have no plans to replace the older version with this one.
With the reprinted base game cards from the New Leaders expansion
Although we kept having to refer to the rules and taking a long time to play, this was a great game!  Can't wait to play again.
A bit more streamlined and less obtuse than it's predecessor. 
A flat out improvement to a game that was already amongst the best boardgames ever designed. Only negative is that unless you are playing a 2 player game, this is probably better played online due to the fact that downtime and overall playtime can be brutal with 3-4 players IRL.
Got the app version for Android. I love playing this over BlueStacks! Logged plays are for the physical version.
My favourite game, bar none. I love the themeing and the density of decisions, thinking through your little engine the whole game - not just to play, but play better than your opponent at every junction.
If I don't get several plays of this soon after learning all the rules and going through a learning game, then it won't stick around.  However, it has potential to be top 10 for me.
For me, this game is too long and it is too hard to see the effects that decisions made now will effect your civ 10 turns from now. The Military is abstracted well, but not fun to play - IMO. I want to like this game more than I do, unfortunately I simply don't.
The people who are incapable of seeing the greatness of this masterpiece deserves to be nuked by Gandhi.
A bit to fiddly for my taste. Might have been a better, more interesting experience with more than two players.
Love it as I feel like I am truly building a civilization. Only downside is how long it takes to play the game.
This one improves the older edition and the older edition was a nine for me.  Downsides: It takes some time, but you can finish a 3 player game of Through the ages in a little bit less then 3 hours, if everyone knows the game and playes fast, but without rushing it. There is no catch-up mechanism, but in a game like this I don't want one. Its brutal, but hey its politics and empire building. Positive: Great engine builder. The engine has multiple aspects and you really can build it over a large amount of turns. The new card set is better balanced. The interaction is indirect, fair, but brutal (great). The amount of luck was reduced in the new version.
The old TTA was good, but the new TTA is even better!
The only negative thing about this game that the gameplay is too long especially in the first few game.
a little heavy for my taste, but maybe need to give it more plays.
+1 for great packaging +1 for close to standard box size
The longest and, arguably, most complex game that I truly love.  Building up your civilization is a unique experience each time.  And unlike most civilization games, it isn't primarily about combat.  Nevertheless, it is unwise to ignore military.  The new card art is fantastic and a massive improvement over the original.  In addition, every change they made to gameplay is an improvement.  
(App) Very thankful that the app does all of the accounting and prepping the decks, and keeping track of all the cubes. A very engaging and enjoyable game that is made delightfully easy thanks to the app.
Look, I understand there are people that love this game. I'm leaving my highest rating possible here. I have a lot of problems with this game. I think it's unbalanced, especially towards military. I think it's too long, both in terms of playtime, and in terms of the cadence of the game. It's fiddly, though understandable considering the original design's age. And last but not least, you can get absolutely crushed by something that you had little to no control over, though this often comes back to the imbalance with military.   My rating for this game depends pretty highly on player count actually. At 4 players & in-person, it's honestly a 2 for me. Go to 2 players and it jumps up to a 4. But this game actually shines better in it's relatively well crafted app version. The app version at 2 players I can give a 6 to.
Great game, you need to play with a thick skinned group. If you get attacked repeatedly, that is hard to take sometimes. I prefer playing this on my tablet now.
Special order offered from EGG since I KS backed the last edition of Through the Ages.  This game seems more fitting for a person that likes to build up and use a military to conquer the world (or your opponent). Even in a peaceful game (no war or aggression) if your military is not a large part of your point generating engine, you will get left behind.  It is still a great game and deserves the high rating it has.   Now that there is a online Steam version, I do not play the cardboard version much. 
A bit too much luck driven: cards that come out. But it is fun to play. Although there is no (world)-map, it contains everything you expect from a civ-game.
Love this game.  It's a great civilization building game.  Downside is the play time - we average about 4 hours for a full game.  This means it doesn't hit the table often enough.
It has a very comprehensive learn-to-play book.  You will almost forget the definition of "time" while playing this game as your mind fills with strategies, planning and calculation. The game runs pretty smooth that you barely have to look up the rulebook again once you know how to play. The theme is there, every single card reminds you the history. I would recommend it for those heavy Euro gamers that are looking for a serious gaming night...
Sept 2019 - First play of this version after playing the other version three times some years ago.  Game play, no real difference to me.  I didn't play enough to feel this was wildly different than the other version.   Still way fiddly to me.
This is an awesome game. I highly recommend people to try the app first, game is explained there in full, and eases your first couple of games. Best in 2-3 players. For all the people who like civilization games, I think this is the best one out there.
Digital version is fantastic; haven't played physical but feels like it might be a lot slower and require a lot of fiddly counting.
Ez egy jó játék, igazán jó. Egyetlen egy gondom van vele, hogy hosszú, de egy órával ezt be lehet korlátozni. Méltán megérdemli a helyezését. Ezt az új verziót próbáltam ki és elég mérges vagyok a kiadóra, hogy nem adott egy csere készletet azoknak bizonyos összegért, amit be tudnának illeszteni a drágán megvett játékukba. EZért én nem fogm megvenni az új kiadást. Egyébként meg mindenki odáig van a grafikáért, ami tényleg nagyon szép és hangulatos. De nem érzem annyira jónak, hogy ezért lecserélje az ember a régi verzióját. A kis fakorongok a régiben egyértelműbben jobbak mint a a mostani igénytelen műanyagok. Csak ajánlani tudom ezt a játékot!
I have the computer game version of this and really liked it.  It just got old after a while.
I initially was very, very positive about this game. And even though I still really like this game, my love has been tempered somewhat.  I like the 'open draft' mechanic a lot, and I believe this is a very elegant way of implementing a Civ game without introducing hexagon tiles. All elements of the game seem strong, and have to be kept in balance in order to have a good game. You can definitely not ignore war, which is a great thing. The game takes a long time, but usually doesn't suffer from slippery slope. I have seen many unexpected wins happen in this game. And the lategame scoring cards can cause even more excitement.   But I also dislike some things. The military deck feels a bit random. If you go for a wargame, you better pray to the god of war because you'll be entirely dependent on how many war cards will pop up. Yes, you should perhaps not go all-in on something. But if you go all in, one game it will pay off and one game it will not. So the success of a tactic can be very dependent on the draw. And that is not healthy in a 4 hour + game.  Also in the basegame, I believe some things occur too often. Napoleon is a must buy. The Cooke island spam is often seen. Who is going to have the lucky top deck Fast Food Chains? Repetitive themes that grow very stale very quickly. And I really hate that it's possible to lose the game almost immediately if you're the unfortunate victim of a well timed early aggression.  I have already played the expansion digitally, which solves almost all these problems as early game warfare is more or less wiped out and the leaders/wonders have been much better balanced. So I think this game will definitely increase in rating once I have the expansion. But for now it's not as good as I hoped it to be.... But it's definitely a good game!
Best CIVILIZATION game. The previous edition was excellent and the design changes in the new version moved it from excellent to perfect for me. 
Sid Meier's Civilization in a board game with a length to match. 
(The app for this game is the best-implemented board game app I have ever played and this game, played via the app, would be a 9.5-10 for me.  But, I cannot imagine playing this game on a tabletop given how much upkeep would be involved and how easy it would be to make mistakes following the various research management rules on a tabletop.  I regularly spend over an hour thinking through moves on my own when I'm playing the app, so cannot imagine how long this game must take with multiple thoughtful players involved.  Also, for a game of that potential length, it is possible to get yourself in a position where by mid-game you are doomed and having to stick that out for another 1-2 hours can't be much fun.)
fantastically long and headache/ap inducing. really fun game, but doesn't scale well because of length. Recommended with 2 to 3. don't try to play this game with anyone but very experienced board gamers- it won't go well.
Awesome! Complex but with an excellent rulebook that really facilitates learning the game. Compelling play mechanics that make each turn just spontaneous enough to be provocative but still predictable enough to allow for long term strategic planning. For not having a map, the game still flourishes thematically. Very impressed.
The new version makes a great game even better. The new art is a big lift and I like the altered rules as well.
Long Game, Worker Placement, game flow not as smooth as would like
Only own the digital version, but it's a very good game! Not sure, if I'll ever get a physical copy as it seems to be a lot of bookkeeping.
Best Game I only Want to play Online.  Just too fiddly.
Sometimes it can tak too much time to play full game. Its better if everyone that you play with knows the rules. Game gonna be much smoother, faster and more enjoyable. But overall its really good game.
Not my style of game. Feels like multi-player solitaire.
What I love about this game: + The best civilization game I have ever played. + Trying to balance culture, science, military, food, resources is very challenging and fun. + The new cards sliding down on the board as the ages progress. + Upgrading your civilization with leaders, technologies, wonders, etc. + Extremely challenging game.  What I dislike: - You have no choice but to build your military if someone else is doing it. You can't ignore it. - Terribly long game with lots of tracking to do. I have to admit I've played it mostly on my iPad - Unforgiving. - Super long.  Wife rating: 2 "Too long. I have other things to do during 8 fucking hours."  Why I got rid of it: Still a great game, but it's almost impossible for me to get to the table, plus I played so many times on my iPad now that it makes the barrier even higher for the physical game.
4.29 Civilization Building Upgrade buildings, collect resources, and build army Strategy
Great game, but long, better in apps or BGA to speed it up.
A fantastic civilization building game that is unfortunately pretty hard to teach and get to the table. It also takes a long time to play, but it is always a fun time!
Sold via Fall 2018 auction.  I can understand why this is where it is on the BGG ranking list. The systems here are mostly well-crafted and intuitive with an overwhelming number of decisions to make and almost infinite replayability. That said, it's not perfect, and certain things, like the military system, could have used some more refinement and development so that it isn't so zero-sum at different parts of the game. It's also punishingly difficult, with a high variance between good and bad play, which puts off some players. At the end of the day, this wasn't getting played due to complexity, and the mobile app has usurped it for me personally.
Last played online October 2020 Last played in person   [b] :arrowE: My gaming group - 7 Good game, it has some issues, but happy to buy/own it even if it only periodically gets played.[/b]   Notes: October 2020 - I really love this game but you might as well ignore all of the culture stuff and go after the 2 or 3 military leaders, get zero culture and steal from your neighbors..  That is not the way my people  play, but if you play on the app that is the way it goes. I say this because this used to be one of my favorite games, and I hoped the expansion to do something to let cultures help each other.  It actually made war basically worse.  Churchill is actually more like Hitler, Napoleon is another. That said I still love going after the culture win and trying to get lucky.    Once I got the app I stopped playing in person, that said in person we take out the wars. If you do so it is a magnificent game.  June-2019-Between the online game and the physical board game I have played this one maybe the most of all my board games   January 2016 $62.99
mam obawy co do balansu, zbyt długie, ciężkie do nauki... niemniej, jest to kawał gry
Seems like the app implementation is widely regarded as better than the physical edition of the game so why bother with the latter?
The more I play this game, the less I like it as I stink at it and can't seem to get any better.
OK! Very good game, specially if you like games in which analysis can actually lead to paralisis, brain tumor, etc. I do not count it on my top ten by far. But still pretty good.
I own digital copy for iPad. SOLD actual board game version.    This game is super difficult in every aspect. I think it is actually the heaviest game I have in my collection (I didn't play Food Chain Magnate). But it feels great to build strong civilization that is super hard to do. Game is brain burning, it takes much about 4 hours and doesn't forgive even smallest mistake. For some players it can be very frustrating. It has very strong negative interaction between players if You're not playing with peaceful mode (ruthless wars and aggression cards). You really feel like a creator of something big, You feel presure, You just can't make bad decisions in this game. I've played this game with 2 other players (5 hours) and now I know that I will not play it again with more than 2 players. Downtime between turns was killing me. I don't think that small luck factor (card drafting & events) is a problem in this game. Overall one of the best games I've ever played. Worth every penny. After 3 hours the best startegy wins the whole game.
La mayor Obra Maestra de Vladaa, para mi el mejor euro duro que existe.
GROUP AVERAG: 7.51 / 10 Bryle: 6.75 Dewey: 8.5 Fung: 8 Sixtus: 6.8  Through the Ages wonderfully marries oppressive engine building with open ended goals and strategy. Overwrought player turns and excessive game state upkeep, result in Through the Ages feeling like a dated design despite it's revisions however. The game's unreasonable length and amount of rules will likely doom Through the Ages to the shelf for long stretches of time.
1판의 단점인 '못생김' 을 완전히 탈피한 진정한 갓겜이 되었다.  고질적인 플레이 타임 문제만 아니라면 여러번 하고 싶은 게임!!
I’ve always told myself I wanted to give this a proper shot by playing the digital app. IRL I just find it too long for what it is, having play this version and the original once, wasn’t interested again. The app is a far better experience. But now that I’ve finally gotten to dig in, as I think this is the kind of game you need to play a few times to get used to before you can figure out if you ‘enjoy’ it, I now think it relies far too much on knowledge of the game for my tastes. I’m sure this is great if you only play a few games. But unless you play this every week with the same group, I just can’t imagine really getting to know the event deck. And it can absolutely destroy you if you think you can just stock up on something. Or you weren’t expecting to lose a wonder, etc. It’s by no means a bad game. But I prefer it when my deep games are fun even if you don’t invest all the time in the world to memorize their decks (which I can’t really do any way because of memory issues). As it stands, I think there are many better cib games. Golden Ages, Antiquity, Space Empires (more 4x than civ) come to mind. But this is well regarded for a reason. It holds up well to deep expert level play I’m sure. I just don’t really want to get there and I don’t think it’s a lot of fun unless you’re an expert. Still, more fun than mediocre. 6/10 for me.  Though I’d not really want to play in-person given the game length.
Too bad Martynas is playing this game daily online, this discourages others from playing live. Air forces are disbalancing the game.
Best strategy game, balanced, best digital version boardgame too
This is a game that was killed by the app. In comparison, it's just sooo fast and sooo simple.  No more book keeping.  Again a game that looks more daunting than it is. 
After having played the original TtA, I'm now no longer interested in this. I really appreciate the depth, but for me it was a fun-free experience. I'm not a fan of bookkeeping games. Especially a civ game. Thus far, Clash of Cultures is the best 'style' of civ for me. Just the right mix of euro, map, and game length. I'm glad TtA exists for those who enjoy it. For me, there are 18xx ways for me to spend that time.
there is a version on steam. great ratings 2-4 players. auctions and history stuff.
Mostly we play this with wifey - without the war cards, so we won't argue... :)
Finally, after 1,5 years of waiting on the shelf, this masterpiece got to the table. And God. This game is really a masterpiece. The rules are very-very deep, and give you a really nice start to understand the game from inch-to-inch. Don't hesitate to try it, you will enjoy it I'm sure even if its more than 2-3 hours of play.
można powiedzieć, że przestarzałe mechaniki, że można oszukiwać... ale to świetna gra!!! Bardzo fajnie się przy niej bawiłam, sentyment też
Awesome game. Super long and involved, not for the faint of heart, but a very in-depth game that you can really sink your teeth into.   There's so many things pulling at your attention. "I want to improve my military so I can start taking aggressions on other players, but I really also need to get that government technology and increase my science so I can increase my actions" and so on. You could play this many times with different experiences.  It's long though, so be prepared. Our first 2-player game took 4.5 hours, and we both had watch "how to play" videos before going into it. I don't mind that though if the gameplay experience justifies the time expenditure, and in this case it really does. Just give yourself enough time.  Aesthically, the game looks mediocre. It's not bad, but I'm primarily an Ameritrasher and it certainly doesn't have the production value I'm used to. Frankly speaking though, that doesn't matter here, and it's a fantastic game overall.
I tried to like this. I really really tried! But it's boring, clunky, hard to grasp, and thoroughly unsatisfying to play!  It's one of my least favorite games of all time. Even if it were a friend's birthday and they desired to play this, I think I'd still sit out.
5x5 2017.  The game is basically about managing and balancing a bunch of currencies- food, resources, science, happiness, military, and of course your population/workers.  All these interact in various ways and a it's complicated enough that managing it all is pretty interesting.  The theme comes through somewhat, although maybe not as much as I'd like, and it is fun building your civilization from antiquity through to modern times.  Although I can't help but feel like you're really doing the same stuff throughout the whole game- the numbers on the cards just get bigger.  And this is a really long game- with inexperienced players this is an all day epic.  The military deck, and the military aspect in general, is nasty but makes the game much more interesting and tense, otherwise this is multiplayer solitare.  But even with those criticisms, this is a pretty great civ game and that's no small feat.
Excellent civ game, too bad it takes such a long time to play. Rules are quite easy once you have played the game once. The app on Steam is fantastic and allows both offline and online play.
Great game, but tough to get to the table. My wife and I like the digital version on Steam, no set up or tear down
After first play through. Can go up for sure after playing with the full rule set and all ages. Needs another play or two for full rating, but I really enjoyed the learning and the theme and concept so I see this one going up for me.  Increased rating after playing on the app too. Gained a full understanding of the game and it is amazing. So many choices/paths to victory. Fun little puzzle of managing resources properly to fully build a wonderful civilization.
The only reason I'm not rating Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization an immediate 10 is for the same reason its predecessor isn't a 10... getting them played face to face. I got Amanda to play this with me and, for the first time in forever, she did really well. Although I won in the end, she was ahead on culture till Age IV and then lost on a tiebreak for Impact of Science. Incredibly close game and I'm hopeful for more face to face plays.  Everything about this new edition is great. I love the cubes instead of the disks. I love the insert. The cards seem like they'll be ok although I'm still waffling on sleeving them. The player boards are a bit thin, but not too bad. The track boards are all great. The rules answered all of my questions (more exactly things I forgot) and I think it'll be a good reference once people know the game. My copy is missing the playbook which I'll acquire at some point on the very off chance that I ever choose to sell it.  The changes to gameplay all seem positive. I like the shared tactic concept although it does ease the tension of getting tactics cards (good and bad). On the other hand, limiting defense cards to the number of military actions is great and avoids people just getting lucky draws. On the other hand, being able to discard any military card for one defense makes it a little easier to get parity (a good thing in Age A/I). As far as the production/corruption switch, I see nothing but positives. Amanda had bronze all game (till she got Oil) and never had a corruption issue. Not a strategy I'd recommend but she (almost) pulled it off.   Finally, the cards are also nerfed just enough that I kept making mistakes assuming I knew what things cost and what they did and only realizing too late that I was wrong. I'll get over it quickly, but in the meantime, I actually like it.   Super happy I've got the new edition (and the old one) and this will probably be new release GotY.
Amazing reimplementation of 'Civilization' the video game.  Although it's not 100% true to the source, most of the game is represented in some way.  This really takes some thinking to play efficiently and has become a favorite (albeit the Tablet App version) for me and my wife.
Polish rev, with one big green pin hmm, a RARE piece You might say :} Also little Buddha included :P
Nueva versión del clásico Through the Ages. Cambian algunas cartas y hay modificaciones en el aspecto militar, pero básicamente el juego sigue siendo el mismo. ERa bueno y lo sigue siendo.
Played on the mobile app mostly. It is a highly strategic game with some variability, but good players will certainly crush new players (no matter how "lucky" the new player gets). There is a lot to keep track of, so I can't imagine playing this in paper. The app does everything for you so it streamlines the experience and it goes fairly quickly.
A rich game with exceptional depth, but I can't imagine playing this analog. Makes for a great play on the ap.
This game is so good. First play can however take hours (ours took about 7 hours with 4 new players). The app is however amazing and with that you can play it much much faster. The boardgamearena implementation is also strongly recommended. Probably it's best to play this turn based.
First and foremost: I'd only play this in the App, or Boardgame arena. The physical game is just not worth it.  I appreciate the design, and how ambitious this game is, however in my opinion it just doesn't deliver. This game is just a very convoluted resource management with cards. There are basically six resources in the game: workers, coal, food, ideas, military, and victory points (called culture), and your task is to manage them as best as possible. The catch is that the way to convert one into the other is via the cards you kind of draft.  The first problem I have is that the Civ theme doesn't really come through for me. Ok, at the begining you have a mine that produces 1 coal, and eventually get an oil rig that produces... 5 coal... Which doesn't make sense. In this game you can end up with fighter jets that you fuel with coal mines, and fight against Napoleonic gunmen that actually somehow manage to win. I honestly think that the 5000-year scope of the game detracts from it. You could reskin the whole game to just stay in one era and make sense. Also, when I finish the game, I don't see my tableau and think: what a nice civ I built!... I just see a bunch of cards from many eras and a big mess (i.e. an operative roman colosseum next to a football stadium).  The other problem I have is that the playtime is loooong due to overly-convoluted mechanics, which make the game quite clunky. There's separate set of actions, a lot of added political mechanics, colonization of islands, wars, and a lot of things that happen maybe once or twice in a game, and honestly doesn't provide much for the given rules complexity.  I think there's many other engine builders / resource management games put there. Underwater cities is a good example.
I played the original TtA and really loved it, and everyone claims this is even better. Hopefully I can track down a copy soon.
Awesome version of the original, which I had only played once. Although we played a 6-hr, 4-player game, I could play again tomorrow. This game has incredibly deep strategic options, while still remaining streamlined in core concept. The buildings and other various cards chain nicely off each other, without mandating that you have an intimate knowledge of all the cards in the deck to have a viable strategy. The wars offer a great amount of player interaction without things coming anywhere near Ameritrash. Overall just an awesome game.  I've only played with 4 players, and definitely want to try out a 3-player game at some point. Can't wait to play again.  11/11/17: Played with 3 players, bumped from 9.5 to 10.
Very good - improves the original  Less war oriented than the 1st edition but better art
Long play time, but engaging so that it doesn't deter from pulling this out, except at 4 players, which can be a marathon. Lots to grasp in this heavyweight, but is a rewarding challenge as you find card combinations and leader qualities to enhance your overall strategy. Great game.
Este juego es muy completo me gustó mucho, no es difícil de aprender, creo que se convertirá en uno de mis favoritos, tiene una curva de aprendizaje muy rápida. Ahora buscaré un organizador para el tablero de jugador ya que queda un poco desordenado en mesa. Definitivamente estará entre mi top 5  La parte negativa para mí es el tablero, es muy grande, necesitas mucho espacio en la mesa, creo que podría ser más eficiente en ese aspecto, Los cubos de pobladores podrían ser mepples fácilmente y los recursos algún tipo de figura de recursos. Siento que lo hicieron demasiado básico solo con cubos.  Es un 7wonder con esteroides. :)
Finally played the board version of this game after having played the app many times before.  I had a good time with it, but man is there ever a lot of bookkeeping in this game.  We kept making accounting errors that may have slightly changed the outcome of the game.    Still, I had fun pushing the cubes around. I just wonder if Nations feels a bit smoother to play in person. So hard to justify the board version when the app is so damn perfect.   
Yes its huge and takes a ton of time but hey somethings are like that and this is worth your time.
2-4 | (4) | 240 min | 14+ | Vlaada Chvátil  Still the best civ boardgame ever.  TtA is one of my favorite games (top 5) and one of my most-played games, although most of those plays have been online. I miss the early aggressions and some of the leaders from the original, but overall this new edition feels more balanced. That said, it really needs an expansion with more leaders and wonders to keep the game fresh.
I have the digital version of this game, and would like the board game. Just not sure it is worth it when I already have one version of the game.
People aren't kidding about this being a heavy game. It's very possible to self-destruct early on and never be able to recover. But it's an excellent game as well, with lots of challenging decisions all the way through. [app only] 
Having played Nations first I can see why that one is considered a light version of this. On the other hand had this one been shorter I would have bumped it up to 9. The increased complexity is enjoyable, the length less so.
es igual (nueva implementacion) al trhough the ages con mas stuff, ademas de 2 a 4 horas de play
Very cool game. I can't compare it to the first edition since I sold that way too long ago but I still like the system. Very well designed.  Unfortunately it's not that easy to bring it to the table...
Solid mechanics, good civ theme, but very repetitive and unnecessarily long.  Going through three ages with three card decks which all feel very similar and uneventful.
An intricate game of resource/action management and card drafting. I play it primarily through the app; the physical version seems like it'd involve a tedious amount of physical accounting. The game itself is masterful.
Further update: giving this a rare 10. Just gets better and better with expanded plays.   Update after 50+ plays: brilliant masterpiece. So many strategies yet tactical decisions every turn. Gets better and better with repeated plays. Definitely a top-10 game.   Early impressions: Wow. I get why this is a BGG top 10 game despite being Civilization without a map. Amazing experience. Fun even when you lose. It is a beast and mathy, but wow deserving of a high rating.
4 All the boring parts of a civ game, without the interesting parts.
[19/04/2021] Rating: 7.5 Obviando el pequeño detalle de que para mí esto es más un videojuego (nunca lo he jugado en mesa y es complicado que alguna vez lo haga por el pesado proceso de mantenimiento entre rondas) creo que le veo algunas pegas que hacen que no me termine de encajar del todo, a saber, creo que le falta algo de rejugabilidad ya que las partidas se me terminan pareciendo unas o otras (quizás con más cartas esta sensación se diluya), si alguien decide ir a por tí puede estropearte la experiencia de partida y no termino de ver una sensación de desarrollo de civilización al estar todo tan simplicado (puntos de cultura, puntos de ciencia, recursos). No digo que sea un mal juego ni que me disguste jugarlo pero, para mi gusto, no es la obra maestra de la que muchos hablan. Aún así, con gente que ya lo sepa jugar y no tenga AP, estoy abierto a echarle partidas.
A new favourite. Complicated enough to always be interesting, and feels productive even when you're losing. Takes a LONG time, and we often end up slogging through the last couple rounds... but super fun.
Probably the best game ever. I've played it a lot and keep enjoying it
Even better than the original! The art upgrade, though superficial, greatly enhances the game experience, and I like the changes that have been made: corruption is evaluated before production, so it's much easier to calculate, and I like how you can now copy other players' tactics. I'm unsure about no longer being able to sacrifice units, though, which was an important way to win aggressions (especially if you were behind in military).   It's still the definitive Civ experience in a board game: tough, tight, epic, and eminently replayable. Vlaada at the top of his game.
Oh how I wish this game was less complex, so I could get more people to play it. It's a fantastic game, but sadly doesn't see the table much due to its complexity and game length.
历史巨轮：人类文明新篇章 Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization
I played this as the app and can not imagine this is fun in a face to face game. I would feel less forgiving about its core flaws: downtime, a sameyness over multiple plays, and the weird ahistorical/acultural themelessness that permeates many civilisation games. Although mechanically fine, mainly due to the tension it creates, a beginner falling one round behind in military strength becomes the punching bag of the table without a chance to recover.  
TRADED AWAY  Fantastic game. Difficult to get into. Great civilization builder. Difficult decisions. Some analysis paralysis. Unfortunately, it takes far too long to play.
Just a few tweaks on the original, but all of them are for the good. I didn't think you could improve upon one of my favorite games, but Vlaada did it.
Love this game! It is a bit complex and lengthy, but I love all the strategy and aspects that you must pay attention to, to stay relevant with your opponents. I do wish the player mats did have a better way to seat the cubes though. One wrong move and you will have no idea where everything was at.
Have played it multiple times online, but only twice in real life.  2p is very different from 4p as I'm sure 3p will be as well. Still getting my ass kicked in 4p online games. The game to me is all about balance. and once you figure out the rough balance of the game, you have to watch other players and figure out how to block, etc. The general rule of not taking cards for additional actions doesn't really ring true with experienced players.  Great great game. I can imagine it will be a beast to play live with more than 2p though.
Reflection, draft, and make evolve your little civilization. Culture, science, war, pandemy, betrayal... like the real country life
超重ゲー。　日本語で出来るアプリが出てる。 ルール、処理共に複雑で覚えるのも考えるのも大変だが文明を発展させていくのは面白い。 他人に対する攻撃要素もあり、得点が大きく離れることもある。人を選ぶゲームだが、時間が５時間以上あり余っている状況ならば最後までやり切るのも良いかも知れない。 攻略を組み立てて取り組む程回数をプレイできるかと考えると、自分では買わないとい結論になる。
[b](Physical copy not owned)[/b] [b](App owned)[/b]  :!block: [b]IMPORTANT NOTE:[/b] This rating is done considering that I have played this game only on the App.   [b]Base Game: Digital Games Played (Base / With Expansion) = 14 + 0 = 14 times[/b] (23) :gg::gg::gg: [b]Awesome Purchase! (Less than 50¢ per hour!)[/b]   [b] :STAR: COMPLETE RATING: [/b] [c] [b]SCORE  CRITERIA       WEIGHTING       ------- STAR RATING SCALE -------[/b]  (7.5) FUN             (x15):         BORING :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::halfstar::nostar::nostar: REALLY FUN  (9.0) GAMEPLAY         (x5):       NO DEPTH :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: LOT OF DEPTH (FOR THE WEIGHT) (7.0) GAME FLOW        (x5):         FIDDLY :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: SILKY SMOOTH (7.0) DOWNTIMES        (x2):         LOT OF :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: ZERO (8.0) RANDOMNESS       (x2):      PURE LUCK :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: PURE SKILLS (8.0) MECHANICS        (x2):         BORING :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: INTERESTING / INNOVATIVE  (9.0) REPLAYABILITY    (x5):           ZERO :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: INFINITE (8.0) SCALABILITY      (x3):           POOR :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: GREAT AT ALL PLAYER COUNTS (6.0) PORTABILITY      (x1):          BULKY :star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: SUPER EASY TO PLAY ANYWHERE  (9.0) THEME            (x1):   UNATTRACTIVE :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: ATTRACTIVE (8.5) AESTHETICS       (x1):           UGLY :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::halfstar::nostar: GORGEOUS (8.0) COMPONENTS       (x1):    LOW QUALITY :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: HIGH QUALITY (9.0) VALUE            (x2):  TOO EXPENSIVE :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: REALLY CHEAP(LOW COST FOR WHAT WE GET)  (7.0) SETUP TIME       (x2):           LONG :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: ZERO (5.0) GAME LENGTH      (x2): TOO SHORT/LONG :star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: JUST PERFECT (5.0) RULES COMPLEXITY (x1):        COMPLEX :star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: SIMPLE [/c]  [b]TOTAL = 386.0/50 = 7.72[/b]   :thumbsup: [b]POSITIVE POINTS:[/b]  ++ Good civilization game that capture most of the feel of a civilization game, with great action point mechanism that enhance the engine-building aspect of the game. ++ Great replayability, with the different strategic approaches we can take to the game because of the card drafting mechanism.   :thumbsdown: [b]NEGATIVE POINTS:[/b]  -- This game would be way too rule-heavy and not streamlined enough for me to really enjoy other than using the App. IMO, there are a bit too many little rules and exceptions to really ease player into the game, and to keep player's mind focused on strategy while playing. -- Thanks for the App's undo function, you can quickly play and if something doesn't work as planned, you can easily go back, but I don't imagine myself having to do this with the tabletop verison of the game, so I guess that people would think a lot on their turn, thus the flow of the game would be impaired and the downtime would be high. -- This game would be way too long, too complex and way too fiddly for me to play IRL with my wife.   :arrowE: [b]OTHER GAME INFO:[/b] [b] Game Weight = 4.4/5 Release Date = 2015 (Original release in 2006) Number of Player = 2-4 App game length = 60-75 min. Player Count Preference = Best at 2, great at 3, recommended at 4! :thumbsup::thumbsup: [/b] 
£41  minus 10 = £31  So i really enjoyed this, but its Far too long, way to long. We played 6.5 hours and that was only the intro game. Plus it really looked like it could leave a player in a poor position with like 3 hours to go, who wants to  play a losing proposition for 3 hours.
Amazing as a two player game - Perhaps the best game for two I have played. With more players it's not at all as good.
It's a hard game to get to the table due to the length, difficulty of teaching, and fiddliness so i usually just play it online where the design really shines.  Has high replay value and consideration involved in card selections.
A very epic and manifold game. Some mechanics are a bit unforgiving for my taste, e.g. civilization loss at end of centuries adds too much overhead.
Great game only downside is the play time. I've only played a 2 player game and it last 4 hours and that was the shortened version. I can't imagine playing it at more than 2 players because of the time factor.
Takes a really long time to learn and teach all the little nuances and rules.  The playtime will be approximately an hour for each player plus 1.  It'll be a lot longer if the players take awhile thinking of their next couple of moves.  For a 2-player game, it would be about a 4-hour game.  If you don't mind the time it takes to set up, teach, and play the game and you like civilization-type games, this is a buy for you.  Otherwise, there are other games that will provide you with the civilization aspect but with a lot less time.
Nice changes in the new edition but still not a genre I'm terribly fond of. I really enjoy the engine-building mechanisms in the game and how players' tableau evolves over the course of the game but small mistakes can still cripple you. Definitely one of the best for fans of civ games but just not one I get excited about.
It is very difficult to rate this game. I love it so much yet I hate it so much. I love the game mechanics and decisions and excitement it brings. On the other hand, the game takes a long time to teach and play, has numerous unnecessary rules that could have been streamlined, and as i mentioned, it takes a long time to teach and learn.   I prefer playing the video game or even the mobile app  Its still one of the best civ games out there..
Honnestly one of the best civ. building game out there. Just so much replayability and everygame feels differents. There isn't a component of the game that is overpowered and every aspects needs to be looked after.
After the four-person introductory game I say, meh. The different cards are interesting, but I never felt I was actually building something. Had this same feeling with Nations, so maybe I just don't like civ games. Traded.
Mi juego de mesa favorito. Es muy complejo y tiene muchas reglas, pero cuenta con 4 cosas que me gustan mucho: estrategia densa, hechos históricos, es de desarrollo de civilizaciones, y se parece mucho a un videojuego que me gustaba de pequeño llamado Rise of Nations.
A better version than the first, and that was already a masterpiece. Best civ game yet. 
If I am going to engage in what is almost entirely heads down play, with the main source of interaction being getting to a resource first before anyone else does (the cards), while pushing around cubes on my private board, I want it to play far faster than this game does.   Also, if you are going to put text on cards, there better be cool combos and game breaking effects. Not piddly get some points. What is this? A Feld?!  Reminds me of Agricola, only longer, not as fun, and I do not end up with a cool looking farm in front of me at the end of the game.
Vendo i 4 Playmats in neoprene €25.00 + spese di spedizione - Sell 4 neoprene playmats 25.00 + shipping cost.
a great game. can create some stumbles climbing the learning curve, but still manages to be a fun game.
这两年，是“穿越”这个主题迅速走红的两年。荧幕上、小说里、屏幕中，各种“穿越”如雨后春笋，层出不穷。  如果你来一次真正有思考、有意义的厚重的穿越，想体会一次人类在各个不同历史阶段中的文明，不妨来到桌游的世界，因为这里有一款世界排名第三的大作，可以带领你从长矛石锤的远古，一直旅行到飞机火炮的现代。让你在一次彻彻底底的穿越之旅中，完成生命的大和谐！   历史巨轮 Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization (2015)  评分：8.7分 难度：4.35 / 5（重度策略） 玩家人数：2—4人（最适合人数3人） 游戏时长：180-240分钟
Bonissim. A la versió digital li he dedicat unes 800hores.  A la física 1 partida.   El setup fa mandreta.
Nou în țiplă 2021 LexShop.ro 160RON 2021 Ozone.ro 102RON extensia New Leaders and Wonders 
Epic grand civilization game! Fantastic mechanisms but lots of bookkeeping.
So far, the best building through the ages game, the digital version is best for solo.
Brings the civilization building experience right to your table, and does it expertly so without a map! Its really long with inexperienced players, so it doesn't get played at more than 2 players often. But if I want engine building (which I usually don't), this is the go-to.
Tough rating. During the pandemic I became somewhat obsessed with this game and played many games against the AI on the app. This absolutely shines as a solo experience that takes 40 minutes or so to get through. I have played the original live and found it an unpleasant experience just because of the length, downtime, and absurd amount of fiddliness and there just wasn’t enough interaction to be super engaging over that time. But having the management handled in the background and having AI turns go so fast allowed me to really focus on the game itself which is fantastic. It took at least 40-50 games for me to be able to beat the hardest AI more than my fair share, and I still think I probably only win 3-player maybe a bit less than 50% of the time so AI is really excellent. The expansion stuff is solid. The rhythm of the game I think I have completely figured out, but it is still enjoyable to play occasionally. Had tons of fun with this for a couple of months though. Best game app out there I think. Now that I know it well I would like to try it live again but worry about the length. So much luck in this game for it to take 3-4 hours.
I had never played the original, but I picked this up at BGG.con. A fantastic game! Highly recommended.
Oh my... This is the cardboard Civilization game I was looking for. Incredible game that has the exact right abstraction from the computer game so that you are not overwhelmed but still have enough options every single turn :)!   One of my top games!   Update 23.12.2019: While I REALLY like this game, I think that the boardgame really takes too much upkeep to enjoy and takes forever to play, even with only two players!   The app, on the other hand, is a masterpiece and I always go to it when I have 20 - 30 minutes to kill! I would say, that this, Brass, Agricola, Carcassonne and the (sadly already unavailable) Stone Age apps are the gold standard for good BG implementations :)!  Boardgame score: 8.0 App score: 9.8
Fantastic game, with a lot of things to do, but also a lot of things to keep in mind while playing. After a few games, the game is much simpler to understand than it looks.   Good civ theme (although not really a civ game), and very good replayability thanks to the many cards. Expansion adds even more cards, and rebalance old ones, which is very nice.   Beware of the length, approx. 4 hours in our multiples 2 players games (but you don't feel it at all while playing)
With beginners, a 2 player game takes easily 4-5 hours, that's too long for me. That being said, I really enjoyed this game.
Enjoyed the puzzle, but not with the conflict cards in there.
Awesome. The good TtA got tweaked at the right corners and makes for an wonderful game now. Even my wife likes it, what is somewaht surprising.  Update 03/23 Still an awesome game - but the app works just so much smoother and faster, easily cutting the play time bei 75%. Thus sold the physical version.
My rating is a little deceptive because TTA as a tabletop experience has enough serious flaws that I'm really reticent to bring it out. The amount of downtime between turns can be lethal, and it's a bear to teach. But as an asynchronous game online, I find the experience satisfying. My play count for this game is deceptive since I play it much more often online and I don't track async online plays.
Civilisation-building without a map.  Complex but extremely deep engine building game
Deep, deep heavy civilization game.  It is a really good game, but I think that I like Nations better.  I would play this again if someone else suggested it, but I won't necessarily say "hey, let's play Through the Ages."  Update:  I did play again.  And although I liked the game, the 4+ hour time commitment was just a bit too much for me - especially when starting at 9PM.  BUT - I love this game on my iPad.  It plays fast, and the computer does all of the fantastic mathy and maintenance stuff lickety-split!  So, I think I would probably rate this game higher if all that crap was done faster during game play.
Best game I have ever played. I bought a second copy if the old one gets too rugged. I also play the crap out of the mobile game version on a weekly basis up to this day and hunting for achievements. 100% recommended
Long but was a really cool game. Odd that they skip so far ahead in history so quickly, but other then that I really enjoyed it.
Played digital. I don't see myself ever playing physical version. Digital isn't all that interesting to me either... It's okay. Lots going on.
I've played TTA for years, and every play with different opponent still bring me new understanding of this game, and the joy of winning. The game's title says it all: this is the game that would live through the ages of boardgaming.
incredible. hard game to master and learn though so be prepared. the digital version helps a lot 
I've only been playing this one online so far, mostly as a two player game. The modest tweaks between this and the base game are across the board good improvements.  It's still pretty much the same game, and I do like it a good bit with online play. I wouldn't want to be a new person trying to tackle this at a table of seasoned players, but if the players are balanced, this is a good, engaging challenge.   After about 10+ plays, this game desperately needs an expansion to introduce some variety.
Was interested in trying this on BGA and after a few rounds it started to make sense and for the most part I was enjoying it. I know I missed a few aspects the first time through with how to best build my engine for some of the later game cards, but the overall flow was pretty easy to get down as this is basically a card drafter. Seeing the sort of cards you could draft and their abilities was fun. However, I knew going into it this is the type of game that I really don't have interest in playing these days (length and weight) and there is a lot to balance ultimately making the game feel more like work than what I consider to be fun anymore. Would I play it with my friend on occasion on BGA since I know he likes it, sure, because when I am up for that challenge I could certainly come back to this. However, it's not a game I'd ever consider owning or suggesting to play either.
Solid civilization game. It's a little long but still a blast. Works great with 2p. Rate based after 3 playthroughs so far, will probably go higher after some more plays :)
Still unplayed, and chances are it will not be played a lot after receiving Bios: Origins 2nd Edition...
My favourite game of all time, deep strategy with a clear sense of progression and dynamics. This is a masterpiece
Fun civilisation building card game. Crams in a lot of 4x civ stuff: technologies, managing population, farming, mining, happiness, government types, wonders, great leaders, colonizing areas. An 8?
all changes from the previous version are making the game even better, on an extraordinary good game. 
Amazing game. The competitive group is too competitive for me, and I have few IRL people who will play it with me.
i love this game. I also bought the expansion and it made the game even better. I hope there will be another expansion. or more extra cards/promo
GG: 8.6* / AV: 8.6 (2-(3)) GG: "Von Cäsar zum Internet": DER epische und wohl auch beste Zivilisations Euro, leider auch episch lang und komplex. Für unerschrockene 2(-3) Spieler empfohlen, mit Tutorial of course.  
Playing it through the iPad app. I would by far prefer playing it this way, then all the admin is handled, and I get to dive into the fantastic game.
App: iOS  The app removes the obvious negatives of extensive book keeping, downtime and lengthy set-up/take down. Always played with the expansion.
$45.49 at Miniature Market ($62.99 on Eagle games). Signed up for notification.
Love the game!! Sold my physical copy since the digital version was released.
EN DEPOSITO DESDE 07/08/20. PROPIEDAD DE EDUARDO HERRANZ (EDUVIGIS)
Want the latest updated edition here: http://www.coolstuffinc.com/p/223375
My feelings about TTA 2.0, in the form of a catechism:  [q]What is different in the new edition? Basically, a bunch of cards you never gave a second thought to in the first edition are now worth buying, and a couple of tweaks were made to the military side that makes that aspect of the game a little less exclusively decisive. The form factor has gone from spartan to pleasantly humdrum. Is the new edition better than the old one? Yes. Is the new edition so much better than the old one that the old one is now worthless? No. Have I, personally, felt like it's worth it to get the new edition? No. Why is that? Because I only play TTA face to face once or twice a year. If I played TTA face to face, say, six or seven times a year with a regular group, would I upgrade? Yes, probably, assuming I had the money. Would getting the new version be my first priority assuming I had the money, vis-a-vis the other things on my wish list? No. If I had the choice between the new or the old edition, would I play the new edition exclusively? Yes. Will I get the app version for iOS when it comes out? Almost certainly.[/q]
App is a 6 or so, maybe. best parts of the app are completely nonexistent in board game form
Old TTA was 10 for me, and now it is better... you do the math.
Sleeved: Swan  Expansions: New Leaders and Wonders 
Bought 03/2018. Sold 08/2018.  --  Final rating: 7.0 (good) on 01/2019.  --  Rating notes to come.
Only down side so far is the time it takes to play.
It requires a really long time to play the 3 eras, but it gives you many ways to win and it's really funny to try different tactics and strategies. The Michelangelo + St Peter Basilica is a really powerful combo that we still have not countered
Great game once you understand it. I still can’t beat the simplest AI!!
2018: 7.  2020: Much too long. I can enjoy it online and some of it is exciting, but mostly it feels like drudgery.
This is currently my favorite game in my collection. The components are very high qualify. There are a multitude of strategies and tech paths to follow, each of which is a viable method for victory. The box is designed to store components very well with a separate compartment for each piece piece and spaces for each board at the top. It plays well at all player counts, although a 4 player game can sometimes drag on if one of the players is going slow.  The game can last over 3 hours pretty easily so don't try to play it if you have somewhere to be. Overall, I adore this game!
A high mark in gaming history. A real achievement. Arguably one of the best games ever designed. And the iOS / mobile version is excellent.
Play this online now from time to time. A really really good Board-game. Really captures my love of Civ games.
Awesome game. Would give it a 10 if it weren't so long and fiddly. :) Mostly play the App which is a wonderful implementation.
A game plagued by long downtimes and constant cube accounting, yet a smooth as butter game that confronts you with simple yet always tense decisions. As fresh as it has been when it first came out, almost 10 years ago, and as exciting. The mechanisms are well-tuned, the art now is serviceable, even good, the components are very good indeed.   An overall excellent game, and one I wish that it hits the game often. Two things that one needs to be mindful of: a) you need to find partners that wish to explore this game, as card and pitfall knowledge is necessary for enjoyment, b) you need to be appreciative of "procedural" games, as this game feels like a constant ledger manipulation. In a short of charming way, but still it does.   I am unsure whether a better design that builds on this one comes along soon. This has not been Nations, or Patchistory or any other latecomer so far, but it is not out of the question that such a better design will come along soon, the grandiosity of the subject almost mandates it.  A well balanced, mature yet guilty pleasure. This new edition brings it up a notch and gives it a sharper edge needed to still sign today.
Not sure about the balance and depth, but boy what fun it is to play.
Age 14  2-4 players, best 3 120 min Card Game, Auction/Bidding, Auction: Dutch
The empire-building is very neat, and there's no doubt I enjoy this game. A few things hold it back from really soaring in my esteem, though. One is the classic issue of analysis paralysis. This game really suffers from it, and it makes for some slow turns. Another is that there's a bunch of fiddly little rules. You have to keep going back to the rulebook, and finding answers there isn't always easy. Finally, the sheer amount of bookkeeping required is a turn-off, especially in the end-game, where the rulebook isn't precisely clear on how everything gets tallied up. Here's where the app version would likely make the game a lot more fun.
Excellent game.  Moderate learning curve and can take a few hours to play but always fun.  Plenty of paths to victory and you need to take a long-term view.  Naval technologies aren't included, except for the abstracted colonisation element.  That's a big gap from a history perspective but doesn't detract from the core of the game.  Highly recommend.
(Mildly interested in this based on the lowered emphasis on the military, but I'm leery based on reports that the leaders have been balanced out; unequal power cards is kind of critical for a game like this as it creates tension. Willing to try, probably not willing to buy first).
A tweaked newer version of a great game.  Would play this version given a choice.
Sleeved with Swan PanAsia: Premium SWN-535  Broken Token Insert  + New Leaders & Wonders
I've come back to this game a few times, and always think I won't like it due to the attack mechanics and the (to me) overall boring look of the game.  But I always enjoy it. The mechanics work well, and you do get a great feeling of power as you ramp up production, points, armies, etc. More so than most other resource management games I've played.  For the attack portion of the game, I would just make sure new players understand the potential consequences going in. As long as you invest some effort into military it feels fairly easy to avoid being a repeat target of attacks.
Awards -Best Heavy Weight Game 2017 -3rd Best Long Game 2017  Rankings 4th Best Game 2017 10th Best Game 2018 33rd Best Game 2019 65th Best Game 2020 Unranked 2021 183rd Best Game 2022
Tried to play twice, couldn't finish game.  Some day...
The first major issue with this game is it takes far too long as a board game (sure the app is quicker but people who like board games tend to like the physicality of them). This is compounded by the second major issue that you have to play it a lot (i.e. invest a lot of time) to become decent at the game. The up keep of the game and the boards use to track it all are a bit of a drag.  The bottom line is that the effort does not reward the average gamer who just wants to play the game a few times now and then (your feelings of satisfaction will be few and far between). It does reward the type of gamer who wants to gain mastery of a game, hunt the forums for strategies and discuss best moves. So, if you are the latter type of gamer I would recommend this game. If you are not then I would recommend spending your money on something else.   I will say that the app is fun (as it does all the book keeping for you and speeds the game up significantly) and I have played it a decent amount, but an app is not a ‘board game’ in the sense that makes me want to play board games. So, I am rating this as a board game and not as an app.
The original TTA is a near perfect game. I have played 100 over games online as well as in league format with my friends. Till date, i still love every game of TTA.  the New TTA fixed whatever small balance issue that existed in the original. If the original was an easy 10, this is easily a 12.  The no sacrifice, discard for defence and simplified corruption are so good in improving the pacing of the game. simply love it.  now i just have to find a way to convert my original to this new version!
I have never played the original, but this new version has immediately landed in my personal top 10. Incredibly well-designed game which keeps me thinking after a party.  I like the colony system, the raids, the leaders and everything. Surprisingly, I don't miss the dice.
Good game for 2 or 3.  Stalls out at 4.  Lots of depth to explore.
Turn the "owned" filter off to view my comments on the 2006 original version of this game. This 2015 "New Story" physical board game is an improvement upon the 2006 version. But I really want to plug the TTA app that allows you to play the game on a tablet or cell phone. It's fantastic!
Rating is based on the app, never played the IRL game. I've been told the app is a good reflection of the board game. 
I have played a practice round of this game with some friends where we only played the first age. I do want to play a full game though.
A solid civilisation game, with draft mechanics, ressources management and a well balanced conflict impact.
Looking for a good 2-p game. Civ building with just cards
in principle a very good game, but it takes too long for the playing experience, thus I prefer other strategy games
My physical copy hasn't seen any action but I play this online. I would rate it a 10 but it feels disingenuous until I play the "real" copy.
Perfect. My favorite game along with the original. No game comes close. 
All-time classic, top notch gameplay and a must own ;)
I can't decide if this is one of the best games ever or just a very good game.
Great game. Mildly sad it doesn't have the Simple/Complex/Complete variants that the first edition had, since I really enjoyed that style of teaching the game. That said, I can just go grab those variants from online, so not that big a deal.
Okay game. Have only played on mobile, not really my type of game and would never want to play the game board version with the level of resource management that has to happen
Two plays. Both on Steam. Game is really interesting but has been a bit hard to grok.
Really enjoyable game of preplanning turns, and juggling resources.  First play, full 4-player game, with all new players involved.  Took over 3 hours to get part way through Age II (with a number of breaks dotted in, and rule checking).  Definitely want to play again when we have more time.  Likely to try and stick to 2/3 player games when time is limited.  *Update* played a full 4 player game, took nearly 6 hours to complete!  Won't look to play with full count unless all are familiar with the game, and players aren't prone to AP.  Seems that 3 players is the sweet spot.
Buen juego pero solamente he podido jugarlo a 2. Pienso que pierde algo de chicha ya que hay subastas, alianzas...y esto se pierde. Creo seria un 9 a mas de 3 jugadores
What a beautiful, brutal, razor's edge of a game. Part of what makes the game so bloody hard is how you can take actions that make you powerful early on, but kill you in the end game. The way every resource and dimension is balanced against the others, and how absolutely punishing it can be when your opponents can exploit whatever slight instability you have is what makes it so good.
So clever, so engrossing. Build an empire by drafting cards and pushing cubes.
Yes, the changes do make the game better. Both in balance and in streamlining gameplay. I still only play this online, but it's just great. Rating both versions a 9, because even though this one is better, the original gets more credit for being a watershed release when it came out.
I have only played this game on BGA, but it became a favorite of mine really fast. I love Civilization (the video game), and I think this is the closest it gets as a board game.
French version ( like new, never played)  For trade or 60$       
This is one I wont get and never will get. It receives a few stars for having an interesting economic component to it, but that's really the only positive. It's a civilization building game without the most important core component of any civilization (no not a central board)- planning. This game, despite its lack of variable player powers and exact same setup every-time, is almost impossible to control and plan ahead for, especially at higher player counts. The cards you need just might never show up before other people take them, and there's nothing you can do about it. I have had not one, but SEVERAL games of this where I didn't get ANY science in the first age, and big surprise, I lost all of those games. Military is always "pick on the weakest player" so it's actually the opposite of a catch up mechanism- it's a beatdown. The colony/events deck has some catch up in it, but again, whether you get cards that help you or not to fit in there is still fairly random, and because its a deck that you seed, you might very well not benefit from the event you seeded in by the time it shows up.  None of the mechanics in this game are intuitive, none of it makes sense, none of it coalesces into something greater than the sum of its parts, and in fact every element of the game hurts each other. It's not even a mediocre civ game, it's just bad. It's too long for how random and samey it is every time.  Look, obviously I'm in the minority here- there's a reason this game has as high of a rating as it does. Just remember to try this before you buy it, especially since it's so expensive and, like most Vlaada games, it's got some severe polarizing elements. I'm a huge Civilization fan, I love card drafting, I love tableau building, I love economic games, so I figured this would be perfect for me. I was wrong. I will never play this ever again.
[color=forestgreen]1.  2.  3. [/color] [color=firebrick] 1.  2.  3. [/color]  2018 Top 100 #34 2019 Top 100 #51 2020 Top 100 #73 2021 Top 100 #72
3P 2p  Rewrite history as you build up your civilization in this epic card drafting game!
First off, this game isn't bad, it's just too big for my tastes. The rules management alone makes it a more of a tedious than fun game. I've come to find the main reason I play board games is to engage, compete, and problem solve with the people I know. And when rules and scopes of games become too large, I tend to end up lording over them like some sort of bureaucratic figure with my book of rules explaining what one can and cannot do. The simplicity is lost, and the focus is on the boundaries. Many tabletops overcome this with lateral thinking, however this game feels trapped within it's scope.  The strategy doesn't seem well balanced either, military being a pathway that once you're ahead, you stay ahead. I imagine that a game this large can't truly be play tested much. Far too many variables.
Confusing at the beginning until you get the grip of the mechanics, but otherwise massive, unique, with almost endless array of choices and strategies available.  This is a true Civilization game and my heart got in the right place when I saw Sid Meier's card :)
This game feels elegant. The cards are great and the components feel good. I can't seem to figure this game out though, this can lead to some frustrating moments when I know there is no way I can be competitive. Usually, only play at 2 players. Though would be very interested to try 3.  +Great Mechanisms with an elegant design +Great choices when playing -The feedback loop is very long and can take a while to know you have made a mistake -Long game -Can be very "mean" depending on the group  Asthetics     ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Replayability ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Game Length   ⭐⭐⭐ Gameplay      ⭐⭐⭐⭐
The improvements to the game made the strategies more balanced and took a game that has always been just on the verge of greatness, into greatness.
This is a clearly very well made game that is just not quite my style.  Edit: Having played it a few times now, I like it less and less with each play. It feels too random. Didn't have upgraded resources come up for you? Too bad!  You are screwed!  Wonders are super OP early on and so just whoever has them come up has a huge advantage. On the other hand, the yellow action cards seem awful, and so whoever has mostly those come up is screwed. The political cards toward the end are complete chaos, with people getting either useless crap or huge points based on pure randomness.  Edit 2: Played it more and it continues to diminish with every play.  It is dipping slowly from tolerable into distasteful.
Don't think too much, and you will have fun (and likely lose)
I personally don't like the mechanism of buying cards from a central line that gets randomly refilled from a deck after each buy/turn when used in a heavy game, and that is definitely what we have here. The few games I played had me under the impression that luck ultimately played a bigger part than skill, which may be wrong but still turned me away in the end. (I did win those games, so I'm not using luck as an excuse for doing badly.)
LD. Streamlined version of TOP10 game. Must CHECK. PnP?  + a lot of cool and interesting game mechanics well combined together + does have thematic feeling of building your own civ with cards only + good quality and visual design - very long play time even for 2p - very unsatisfying ending, all the game you struggle to build up and right when you can enjoy your civ - game ends. this point alone makes this game not enjoyable.
"Eine neue Geschichte der Zivilisation" Android App
I love this game, in spite of being long, taking a lot of time to setup and tear down, having a steep learning curve, etc., etc. All true, but still amazing. I don't know how Vlaada Chvátil can make such different games, all good. TtA really gives the feeling of a civilization being built from scratch, in a card-driven way, and with lots of elements that force us to pay attention to what the others are doing - otherwise we can easily get scratched from the map by the military forces, for instance, or a cleverly chosen leader. I don't get to play it much, but each time I do, I want to play it more.
BGA -This is a great game with so many possible strategies/tactics. Many ways to win (or lose), and a great adaptation of the classic PC game!
+ You can learn history here + Cool combos  - So many little cubes... - The setup is tiring - The playtime is too long?
Very solid remake of the 2006 game.  Some cards have been tweaked and the corruption "streamlined".  Otherwise, the game is very similar in play.  I like both games a lot and look forward to many more game plays of the new Through The Ages 2015 game.
I've been playing this a lot lately.  It's a great deal of fun, though rather rough with competition between players.
They took the best civilization board game and tweaked to make it even better. It's better than the old edition by far.
This game is incredible! My favorite game of all time! Civilization building is one of my favorite themes in a game and this game delivers like none other I have ever played. The game is very tight. You always want to do more that you are able to accomplish. The game has tons of replayability. Player interaction is great. It is best at 3 or 4, but 2 player is still a lot of fun. I cannot praise this game enough. A masterpiece by Vlaada Chvatil!  The first edition was great, but this edition adds better artwork, better components, and tweaks to better balance the game.
Aesthetics (x1): 7 Mechanics (x3): 8,5 Thrill (x3): 9 Interaction (x2): 8,5 Replayability (x2): 8 Flow (x1): 6 Appeal (x1): 8,5 Skill (x3): 9 Depth (x2): 8,5  Overall: 8,39  Rated: 06/2021 Edited: 03/2023
Rated 10 for online. Rate closer to a 6 for actually playing due to how fidgety the game is. Too much book keeping to be enjoyable in person 
This is a Game with a big G. I totally love playing this. Deep thinky game with a lot of decision trees and a huge amount of strategies. You can feel like you are real leader of some tribe leading it through the ages. Economics works here brilliantly and everything is just perfect.  What I like: - lots of strategy and tactics involved - different paths to victory - simplistic design (no map), just player board with some cubes and cards, yet one of the deepest games I have played - theme  What I dislike: - Took a lot of time to play this, I would like to play it much often but the time dedication is limited. - The downtime could be very high in 3+ inexperienced players  - Lack of solid solitaire mode (some kind of automa)
Definitely more streamlined than the previous edition. Leaders and wonders are more balanced and it seems the game is open for expansion too. The only complaint is it's hard to teach and hard to find players. But for a game of this size, the complexity is at least in line with the enjoyment.
I own the excellent online version. Amazing game, hard to stop playing it.
I play on my phone and love it, dont own the table top version, but play enough on the app that I feel like I should rate it.  GREAT game!
Outstanding. Theme integration is extraordinary. Mechanics are very sound. Decision points are excruciating. Mistakes are punished severely!
A deplorable late game let's down what could easily be in my top #5 games otherwise. The rules are manageable and provide a great strategic challenge. This game plays well with any number of players and the components act as a real visible metric of progress. At the beginning the fun and excitement of dawning your own civilisation is there. Through age A, 1 and 2 you are combining leaders with wonders, building your military and producing thriving communities. This all leads to a damp squib, with the players then abandoning all reason and picking up the best wonder, leader, and painfully extracting each last point of culture they can. And, that isn't fun.
Fantastic strategy game! Every move counts. Love it!
The greatest civ game. A unique experience every time I play it.
STATUS: Keep Designer: Vlaada Chvátil Publisher: Czech Games Edition Player Count: 3 Best Notes: Friends: Pieter
Really great game,which is quite complex though and can be hard to find someone willing to go through all the rules just to play with you.I'd suggest getting it if you have a hardcore group that crave for civ-building experience.If you have,then this might be a 10 for you.For me it's a great game,but I'm rarely able to play it
Rating is based solely on the 4 player game. The game didn't fix it's downtime and game length issues. If i'd play this with just 2 people in total i'd give it a 9 / 10.
Too long for what it is, essentially engine building with  civ theme on top (weak theme anyway because they only exist for their icon and ability, not because they make sense). Random market, you may not get a better mine card on top of being attacked and stolen all resource. Super skewed toward military, good luck not focusing on miliary and get plummeted by 3 other players every turn. Rather play any engine build game than this, imperial settlers, terraform mar...
you need much time for this rewarding civ-game, artwork and components are fine, fits in the [gameid=126042]-box (together with [gameid=126042]) ;)  [c]Location: in the Nations-Box[/c]
Esto es un juegazo tremendo. Prepárate para hora y media de lectura de reglas y 5 horas mínimo de partida a 3 jugadores. Eso sí, la mayoría de las 5 horas vas a estar de pie y se te va a pasar volando, pero son 5 horas de disfrute, evolución de tu civilización y control del resto de jugadores. Se puede probar en su app, que es extraordinaria.
An amazing game with compelling engine building and many paths to victory, but it plays too long and the rules are a little too complicated. I prefer playing it online.
──────────────────────────────────────────────────── ‘사람을 많이 쓰면 어떻게 된다’가 놀라운 방식으로 표현되는 게임입니다.
A great civ building game, you'll never have enough time to do everything you want and get all the techs you think you'll need. It may take a game to get how the pacing works, but my main critique is that the decisions of the final era can feel less important than the first two. So much of the last era depends on what you did in the first two, that if something was missed, it could make the rest of the game kind of rough (a perennial problem in civ type games).
Great improvement of a great game. Illustrations are finaly fine. Gameplay is more fluent and balanced.
Considering I gave the older 9, and this is definitely a step up, I can't give this anything other than a 10! I think this is best played as a 2-3 player "full" (Ages A-IV) or a 3-4 player "normal" (Ages A-II) game. 
Masterpiece! Honor a Vlaada! Me gustan los euros con mapa, me gustan los temáticos con mapa, me gusta todo con mapa. Pues este no tiene nada de eso y te montas tal película en tu cabeza que te imaginas el mundo que se va desarrollando con unas simples cartas. El juego definitivo sobre civilizaciones. lo tiene TODO.
I would recommend this game to those who have the time to learn a game that rewards you and your players through hard work! The rule books are MEATY and there is a lot to digest, but once you do, you're laughing. There is an awful lot going on in this game and resource managing enthusiasts are going to love this. You need to strike a delicate balance to be successful, as everything is just as important as everything else. Be prepared for your first couple of games to last around 6 hours as you learn, but stay with it, it's a gem.
The definitive civ-building game. A bit long and a touch heavy on the rules but if you can get past that the gameplay is elegant and challenging, with a very high skill ceiling. Certainly the best in its class. I do wish there were just a bit more room for direct player interaction and certain stretches of the game didn't feel as scripted among experienced players.  ---  UPDATE: Digital implementations have obsoleted the physical version of this for me. It's just so much smoother online. 
A marked improvement on the original. The advent of boardgaming-online, which allowed you to play for free online, meant that the original was subject to tons of de facto play-testing. It shows.
I came late to the party with this new edition, but what a great game! Rules are perfectly explained and the artwork and iconography are a big step up from the original. Now just need to convert more people and play more!
Gaining a new found appreciation of the genius of the game. The way the economy and resources work is very clever. I am beginning to appreciate how the military balances the game.
Perfect game except for how the cards can screw you...
Really I dislike card games, but this one is brilliant.
Have owned and sold this. It was completely replaced by the app which is fantastic.
Actual civilisations have risen and fallen in less time than it takes to play this game, so I'm surprised how much I like it.  It's thinky, but not needlessly complicated; everything has a purpose and that lets the gameplay shine.  I only like the peaceful variant.  (No war.)  I want to build a civilisation, not tear down yours.  You can play the peaceful variant in the physical game and online at Board Game Arena, but not on the Through the Ages app for some reason.
A big civ game in a relatively small box.  I very much admire the design of the game, but in the end it feels a bit dated and too long to keep it in my physical collection, but would continue to enjoy the app.  For a game with a 4.4 weight rating, the core rules are pretty easy to grok, but there are a lot of extra steps especially around the military events that could have been described better both in the rules and on the player aids and boards.  The action selection system is clever. There are many ways to get exra actions or improve your efficiency.  The card row flows well at all player counts and you always feel there are a lot of possibilities even if they cost a lot of actions.  The cards are the heart of the game. There are a lot of types of cards. The effects are interesting, but I would have liked a bit more variety and diverging tech paths.  I like building up my production and science and then shifting into either big culture or big military. Leaders are probably the best cards, followed by the governments.  I am in no way a good player, but with an equally (un)skilled opponent the game feels balanced and tight.  My biggest problem with it is that it's just too long.  All in all, would recommend to every heavy euro player to try it at least once.
Original was a 10, and this is an overall improvement.... Even with the loss of some brinksmanship now that sacrifice has been removed from the game.
2-4 players, civ building, 120-180 minutes.  I'm a big fan of civilization games, have always played civ games on the PC (mainly Sid Meier's Civilization), so I'm always curious/excited when a board game implementation comes by.  This one is a revised version of TTA and has been very well received given the very high rating and ranking on BGG. Once I had played it, decided to add it to the collection, although it will probably not get much playtime (it's a bit fiddly and very dry and it is a very long game).  Fortunately, I also have the app, so can play it solo (i.e. against the AI).
Too long, with huge downtime, many small rules and poor manual.
designed by Vlaada Chvàtil  Expansion: New Leaders and Wonders (2020)
To damn long for its repetitive and fiddly gameplay loop. It would be a good light filler if it wasnt as long.
Really good game simulating the evolution of a civilization. I prefer the app (steam or smartphone) because it calculates all the scores and productions for you so it removes all the hassle and speeds up greatly the game + the tutorial is really well made so you will be able to learn very easily and quickly the game !
Liked the original, but this is a big improvement.  It doesn't feel as if military is nearly the dominant thing it was before, and the graphic presentation is much nicer. I very much enjoy the game, but the length and the fiddliness of tracking food, population and resources detract from the experience. A once or twice a year kind of game, but fun. Curious about the upcoming expansions.  Update: the app is very well done, and may kill face to face games for me. A game that’s as long and fiddly as this just doesn’t get to the table much, but asynchronous play over several days, with the app making sure no one messes up their bookkeeping, is the way to go. It even makes four player games feasible.
Civilization builder card game. No geographics involved. You build your civilization by choosing cards. Many of the cards are only activated if you send workers (so there is a bit of worker placement involved as well). Civilization develops at a slow pace, but that is historic reality.
I try to keep my collection as small and varied as possible.  I don't have the space for every game ever made.  I like to have the best of each genre in my collection.  So I am going into this review of Through the Ages heavily biased towards not wanting to replace or duplicate the Sid Meier's Civilization (plus both expansions) slot.  And yet here we are.  Unlike Sid Meier's, there is no map here to explore and conquer.  Yet it's sitting at #2 on the BGG list, compared to Sid's at #137.  What gives?
$40 Amazon Each player attempts to build the best civilization through careful resource management, discovering new technologies, electing the right leaders, building wonders and maintaining a strong military. Weakness in any area can be exploited by your opponents. The game takes place throughout the ages beginning in the age of antiquity and ending in the modern age. Compare w/ NATIONS https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=fijbN6sLeEg
Muito bom! Dá uma incrível sensação de civ building!  19.11.18: Depois de 3 partidas o jogo, embora muito bom, acabou tendo uma proporção diversão/tempo pequena, deixou a coleção.
This is just an extremely fun, interesting, balanced game. It does take a while, but you enjoy every second of it (unless you play 4-player. Don't play 4-player) 
The app salvaged this game for me, even to the point where I prefer to play face-to-face using the app.
Well, what a tremendous game!  One can really feel as if he was setting the fundations of a civilization and making it´s future development. Establishing the ways to gather resources, the form of government (with different features between them), the ways to expand science to further enhance culture (the aim of the game)... The buildings, the equipments and the historic personalties that are presented to be picked up by the players are very thematic and come at the right "age" of time (that is antiquity, medieval, modern age, etc) and the personalties reproduce their historical role. Through the Ages is a breathtaking experience though beeing, at same time, very demanding and heavy, with lots of AP, beeing virtually impossible the introdution of the game to people which are not gamers.    
As a big fan of the original game, I was skeptical about the new version. However, after playing it, I feel they've done a great job of streamlining parts and fixing some of the leaders' abilities. The new components are excellent, as are the end-of-turn changes. New events are also very interesting. I traded my old version, as this replaces it in every way. That being said, I've played the game (old version mostly) so many times, I'm a little burned out on it. I still think it's a great game, but I'd almost always rather play Clash of Cultures nowadays.
This is a great game. It does need some commitment though.   The full game can easily take about 4 hours and the short game can take about 2-3 hours.   you can play multiple variants as well. If you want to reduce the take that element then play without war and aggression cards.   Its a tableau builder which upgrades your income, resources and military power.  You have a lot of resource and hand management as well.   short version has end game scoring based upon structures, colonies, etc. The full game is just Culture (including those from events of the third age).   Its complex and strategic with definitely some luck elements with the cards. But mostly all luck can be overcome. Its a fun, competetive, brain burner.
Very well playing game. Tends to be on the long side, and if you're losing it feels like it drags on (kind of like in Civilization). However, it is satisfying to play, particularly if you win or come very close to winning. Would suggest it to anyone who likes complex strategy games where you have to plan multiple turns ahead. Just be prepared for lots of rules.
Pros: - Highly replayable - Tight resource management and card drafting game. - Balancing actions and resources on each turn is very satisfying. - Forward planning very important unless your civilization suffers from imbalance.  This edition further refines previous editions and streamlines the end of turn process for players. Really a gamer's game where civilization is abstracted but well represented by the different actions and resources you can juggle. Great components, artwork, and graphic design.  Cons: - Steep learning curve and game play flow takes getting used to. - Level of abstraction has to be learned and bookkeeping can be easily missed and mess up a session. - Punishing game when military options are used against players but luckily has surrender/resign option. - Minimum an hour per player, longer with newbies. Ironically feels like it ends too quickly in the latter half of the game despite everyone having more actions and longer turns since end game comes abruptly.
Impeccably balanced game that simulates the feeling of playing Civilization without the giant parameter space.  In theory one could say the game runs a bit long but the game's rubber-banding mechanisms keep it close without being unfair, and hence it stays engaging throughout.  Above all this game rewards adaptability. Unlike some of the other greats in the Euro strategy arena, this one can't be decided by an early-game killer gambit. The adept player can always find a way to steal the game late.
i'm so excited for the new exspansion. when i heard that CGE has problems with printing, i almost had a heart attack. the game is... just my favourite board game of all time. for me the top 1 of all time. 
As intimidating as this game was to learn, it actually reveals itself to be much less trouble once you get in the flow of the game.  I still think I'll have more difficulty finding people willing to play a game this long, but I found it to be worth the time.  Hoping to be able to play this more often than I think I'll be able to.  Excellent game.
I have only played the digital version, so I don't count the plays.  This game is fucking amazing.  You take the best parts of 7 Wonders, add engine building, and seamlessly integrate an auction based military system.  This game is awesome with any number of players, with four being my favourite, although I imagine it would take a hell of a long time to play in person.  One gripe, occasionally you don't draw the right military cards and you get seriously fucked over.  You can usually plan for this, but sometimes your planning doesn't pay off and you don't get a war or a tactics card that you need.  I'm stretching here though, you should definitely play this game.
6615 http://www.grenadier.rs/board-games-drustvene-igre/through-the-ages.asp 6190 https://www.kupujemprodajem.com/Through-the-Ages-A-New-Story-of-Civilization-51685361-oglas.htm?filter_id=12082 
Enfundado con Mayday Standard Sails of Glory (50x75)
One play, online, with the starter rules/ages. 2 players. Pretty complex game, but once you know the rules, it seems like it can actually play pretty quickly.  I like the concept.
Very good game with massive strategic depth. Best Civilization type game of all time. It have only two cons: Its veeeeery long game and also if you did a mistake on the beggining, you probably already lost.  8->7.5 I had this games for 4 years and played only 4 times, I don't say It is not my fault, but If it could be just a little shorter It could be my favourite Civ game...traded.
Own the digital version. Seems ok, too heavy and convoluted for the first few games.
Great game. Played a bit long with 3 players, but we interpret 1 key rule about the limits on buildings. Once we sorted that out the game moved at a much quicker pace. Numerous interesting choices and the politics phase generates a lot of impactful events.
Just picked up the new version.   Very much enjoy the old version and expect I will as much or more this with the new and enhanced production.    Rating will likely go up once I've got this on the table a couple times.
A great mega civ game. If I have four hours and three players, it's a game I always want to get on the table
that game is a weired bast. Strangest engine builder I ever failed to understand! Highly recommended to play online and it takes a lot of time and experience until you might start enjoyng it.
This might be the only game I'd rather play digital than its real counterpart.
Owned it for 9 months now, thoroughly satisfied with it.
I think this game killed my wife's willingness to try new games. I did not know what I was getting myself into.
Traded without playing. Got Spirit Island in return.
This is a perfect example of a game that is better on desktop/tablet than IRL.
A peculiar game that suffers from having too much and too little at the same time, too much options and too little resources to execute them
TtA is the quintessential complex civilization strategy game.  The breadth and scope of this game is immense. Because of that scope, it takes some dedication to learn the rules to a decent level of comfort (I used videos, the excellent printed instructions including Handbook and Code of Laws, and the Tutorial in the app version). But once you have that comfort, the game is deep, rich and consuming.  It’s also long...so be ready to devote a good chunk of time per game.
Perfect euro-style game. Well-deserving of it's reputation.
Best boardgame I have ever played. Great replayabillity as well.
Like the idea but don’t like the way the systems incentivize the players in the lead beating up on the weakest players
Longest game I've ever played but still thoroughly enjoyed.
This turned out too difficult for me. Long game, probably genius, but not my cup of tea. Maybe I could play it on the device.
[2016-05-02 Rating: n.a. -> 9] (Note: This rating is for the two player game. I haven't tried any other player count and I'm not sure that I want).  Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization (TtA) is a long, fiddly game with quite a lot of negative player interaction. All ingredients that I normally don't like in my games. But strangely, I do really enjoy TtA. For everything that I despise in TtA there is something in the design that makes up for it. The clever idea of letting the players seed the events, the sense of achievement when you make a long term plan work and most of all, the satisfying feeling of managing your own civilization through the ups and downs of time. It just feels wonderful.  Now, one thing you have to keep in mind is that you need a dedicated opponent to get the full enjoyment from this game. The first few games are needed to get the card interactions and rules down. It's after that point that you can really begin to discover the depths of this wonderful game.  Another thing: I can't really comment on which version is better since it has been years since I've played the old one. One thing I do like better about the new version is the fact that there aren't different play modes (beginner, intermediate and expert). There is only one set of rules, which prevents some of the confusion that I've always had in the old version.
Great manifestation of the flow of time as players compete to thrive by using limited actions to acquire resources and channel them into daunting nation powers. Despite the punishing black event cards, the game is well baked and rolled out for deeper strategy gamers.
Always was interested in this one, but never thought it would see the table much. The iOS version is really good and has let me play this. I’d like this better if the military was more balanced with the rest of the game. There’s parts of the game I really like, but the military takes me away from the parts of the game I actually enjoy. I've gone through a parabola on this one: I was baffled at first, then excited when the game clicked and I saw how the pieces worked together, and then my frustration grew over time as I realized how dominant the military parts are. Still play regularly over iOS, but I would never, ever play the board game version.
The Good: Heavyweight civ game with interesting choices and tight resource management. Lots of different ways to build up your civ, and the way resources and buildings are handled is unique and keeps the game mostly card driven that doesn't sprawl out all over the table.  The Bad: It's hard to keep track of everything going on, making sure to update all your resources, update the scoring tracks, add new cards to the Tableau, remind yourself what your leader does, etc. It's a lot going on and as a result, the first plays are going to be looong. This clocks in at the moment at just under 4 hours for two players and I find it does overstay its welcome a bit. The game could be a bit tighter in the midgame.   The ugly: The God awful rule book and glossary. The explanations are spread all over the place in tiny text, there are almost no explanations to scoring cards and learning the game through the rule book is exhausting. YouTube videos saved this game from never getting played. Also on a side note, there are these random pillage military cards that are just awful take that mechanisms. You can absolutely wreck your opponents machine and there is no way to protect yourself. It's not fun to play out and just feels mean rather than strategic. With wars at least you compare military, but these cards can be easily removed to improve game quality. 
Why is Nations rated so highly? People say it isn't a ripoff but in the first place, it is, and in the second place TTA is far, far better.   Nations is like Rod Stewart covering Zeppelin.  edit: It is better than the god-awful steaming turd Nations, but in it's own way it's almost as painful. After 4 plays I dislike this for the same reason that I dislike Dungeon Petz, Galaxy Trucker, Space Alert, and especially Mage Knight.  [i]You don't solve a problem with a rule.[/i]
Sounds like a lot of my beefs with the previous version were addressed, and I (conditionally) loved the previous version.
Emphasis on "new" in title as that is the second edition.
So many fun mechanics in this one. It is rather long but it's just so cool. Changing governments, gaining leaders, colonizing, building wonders. I'm a big fan of civ computer games, and this is similar. There's actually a killer app version of this.
Most of my time with TTA is with the app, but I really like the action system. Every resource is only used for one thing, making it very clear how much of something you need. There is room to make mistakes, since you take a lot of turns, and not every turn is life or death. The first few turns are slow enough that you can explain as people play their first few turns.
Love this game. Love it! The possibilities are endless. The rules are complex and engaging. The cubes are so fun to look at, place and shift. You are always torn amongst a plethora of outcomes. At the end of the game (if you can ever get there without one of your kids throwing something at the table and disheveling the placement of the markers), you will always wonder what would have happened if you had chosen three different cards in a particular turn. I will never fully comprehend this game, and it blows my mind that one person designed it.
https://www.spelexperten.com/sallskapsspel/strategispel/through-the-ages-a-new-story-of-civilization.html
Best Civ game out there! It's not as good looking as some of the other Civ games, but as a game vastly superior.
Not a fan of this type of game, but it's still pretty good to play, especially the app was well made.
I own and have played the first edition several times but this edition is much easier to learn and play. Huge improvement in all aspects.  Even though the playtime is long the game is engaging all the way, sure some people might get some super combinations and so on but the game is fun anyway. The wars and aggressions forces you to keep up military which is good. You can skip it altogether of course but it will cost you.  Don't play with slow players though and don't play with four. There is downtime (even though it can be easily mitigated by allowing the next player to start while the first one is doing production and so on).
I can tell there's a very good game there, but it's just not for me. Far too many things to think and worry about. I would much prefer this as a PC game than a board game.
The second edition didn't fix the war issue. Still it hits very hard making the whole experience kinda hopeless. Probably better reviewers than me would call it a "balance" issue and that the new catch-up mechanism is still lacking.
Just an awesome game.  Even better than the original.  Military races can still occur, but that's supposed to happen in Civ games.  See my review of the original and then understand that this fixes some of the minor issues.  The worthless leaders are fixed.  Need more plays to determine if there are still any overpowered ones. I'd still remove "Classic Army" tactics from the Age II military deck.  But now instead of one person being the lucky recipient, everyone will get it.  So better, but not perfect.  I'll play this one any time!
Lovely new edition of Through The Ages, that instantly replaces my old well played CBG edition from nearly a decade ago.  The components have been given a dramatic upgrade, and the mechanics overhauled to give a smoother feel to the game play.   Still one of the best games of all time.  
I want to get more plays of this to speed the game up as the length keeps it from getting played.  That being said.  I love, love, love this game.
Much improved. Still fiddly and favors knowing the various combo possibilities, but more no longer suffering from certain flaws of the earlier edition, like the military imbalances.
http://meeplelikeus.co.uk/ages-new-story-civilization-2015/  http://meeplelikeus.co.uk/ages-new-story-civilization-2015-accessibility-teardown/
score base on app plays. DO NOT include the difficulty of set up and tear down
I used to love the Sid Meier's computer games, this seems similar. Oh, and Vlaada.
I like the game, but there is some randomness that you might not be able to overcome.  Experience helps ALOT when knowing what cards you need when.  Its a variable market kinda thing.  Military is to important.
After over a dozen plays of this game, I definitely consider this game to have some of the best elements of any game that I own. Every game represents a variable order of cards, and as a result, the game changes every time I play it. Admittedly, although you can pick up the order and mechanics of the game quite quickly, learning and applying an effective strategy takes a much more concerted effort, and honestly, I suck at it, but I would play this game any day of the week with 2 or 3, and never ever with four because of the amount of lag and AP that players have to endure at 4 players.
One of my all time favorites comes back with an improved edition. I'll never be able to go play the original edition again.
5/21 Traded; Acquired in Trade 6/20; It is definitely solid, and is the civilization game it touts to be. I'm a little concerned about the length and table presence for 'just a card game' May be to long/unwieldly for the effort involved. 4/5
When I read the rules, it became clear that it would take a long time to learn, and even after learning the components of the game, I didn't dare to make a test move. Later, after playing many different games, I returned to it and still figured out many things, and the digital version with its tutorial helped me better understand the rest.  After Mage Wars, this was the second game in which I saw a set of cards divided into several types, each with its own nuances. The different tablets help sort the maps and display the available resources, but at the same time the tablets take up a lot of desk space.  Gameplay has great depth with many different types of actions and the use of terminology. At the same time, the main points can be quickly mastered by analyzing the sequence of phases. Since it takes a long time to complete an action here, there is a great deal of waiting for one's turn when playing with three or four players.  Resources are scarce at first, but with proper long-term planning it is possible to increase the efficiency of resource accumulation. However, the number of available actions is sometimes insufficient, and you will have to limit yourself to something. Also, if you do not pay attention to the size of your armies, you will find it harder to defend or claim colonization.
This game looks amazing, but I've never been able to pull the trigger. Seems like a guaranteed winner. CGE + Civ Building.
Amazing design--in many ways a true masterpiece.  But it's also just too long and fiddly for a boardgame.  It can also be very brutal for no apparent reason (similar to how Catan can be this way.)  This is best as an app, where you can play a game against AI in 30 mins.  (10/10 for the app)
One of the greatest games ever made, but difficult to play on the table. With expansion.
Have the phone app. All the tracking would seem very cumbersome with a physical copy.
Love this game and how it captures the essence of the civilization video game.  It is deep and very re-playable.  Be prepared for a long game (at least 2 hours).  The new edition makes great improvements on the original.  
So far I have played two times through the iPad version's long, beefy but excellent tutorial. Background: I love Civ games, and Civ 2 was my favorite game growing up. However, I suck at long-term strategy. Yet I keep coming back for more. This explains my love-hate relationship with TTA: ANSOC; I love it, I want to keep playing it, yet I also keep losing every time I play. I haven't yet managed to defeat the AI on Easy. Also, I'm intimidated by all the moving parts and bookkeeping (another thing I suck at) in the physical copy. I think I prefer the streamlined experience of the iOS version, which does a lot of the bookkeeping for you. Also, the iOS version is among the best digital versions of a board game that I have ever played.
Euro Game/Civilzation Building  2 Player: 9.0 (Best Player Count 4) Complexity: Heavy  A much shorter game at 2 players and it still works very well, the military track and cards are more interesting at higher player counts however.
I think this is the same game as [gameid=25613] (just a newer version).    I love that game though, and I had rated it a "10."  This made some good minor changes that I think made the game a little better (like any new version should), and so I rate this a "10" now, since I play this. I don't usually rate a game this new a "10," but since it is just a new version, it earned it.  Definitely in my Top 10 games.  It is a great civilization game.  This has been what I have been waiting for since [gameid=71].  A longer complex game than a typical gamenight game, but not as long as or complex as [gameid=71].  Basically a "meaty" game that takes some time, but it won't take all day or a weekend to play.   
While not drastically different from the first edition, everything here is a little bit better.   Or, in some cases, a lot of bit better - the graphics, the UI, the score tracks, the military system.   Many cards have been tweaked.   But, it is still the same game essentially.   So, this kind of obsoletes the first version (all editions).
I'm fully enamored with this game. There is so much to sink your teeth into. Replay value is through the roof. Once the rules are out of the way this becomes a blissfully enjoyable game. It's amazing how the game crecendos from relaxing in the beginning to absolute madness and tension towards the end. The game feels like a trip and I love it.
Interesting game but I think I will only play on the app due to the amount of bookkeeping
I've dramatically dropped my rating on this one. Now that I have played it many times it appears to be too deeply flawed. At first, the game seemed to offer a whole myriad of ways to develop your civilization and win, but the reality is that this is a race to military and Napoleon and that is largely dependent on luck. It is unpleasant to win by destroying other people's work and it is unpleasant to see your hard work destroyed by others. A real pity this revised edition didn't fix that as I understand the first version was even worse on this count.
This is one of the very few games that I prefer the digital version.
Great game, very crunchy. If you like a very strategic and mechanical experience, this is for you.
The game provides an interesting set of decisions with each play.  It requires you to play with focus and tact from the first turn to the last. If you have one bad turn, it can be the difference between staying close and getting demolished.  The mechanisms associated with population and resources cubes are pretty cool where you have to make sure you spend enough resources and food to avoid corruption and have enough smiley faces to avoid revolt.  The way all the different upgrades and leaders work in your engine is fun to discover.  However, for a game that requires such a high level of focus and near perfect play to compete and for how long it takes to play a game, there is too much randomness that can derail your hopes of even keeping it close. So many times I've been screwed by not drawing a decent tactics card or being blindsided by a devastating politics card and had to dutifully finish out a game, taking my beating for half of a very long game.  Also, this is very much a "kick 'em while they're down" game. It incentivizes attacking the person doing the worst.  To me, any game that has a built in "resign" option is a red flag. (excluding games like Chess or Go--those without random chance)  For me, these frustrating experiences that happen in maybe 20% of my games outweigh all the other great innovations this one has to offer.  Also, I've only played it on the phone app. Seems like it would be a nightmare to play the physical game, and I typically much prefer the physical version of any board game.
Purchased at favorite local game store August 2016.  Love it to death.
A really good game but it has too much upkeep and is too long to get to the table very often.
BGO player.  I like this better than the original.  They made good improvements on a great game.
Good old TTA improved in many ways. Game is significantly different, but fun it gives remains the same.
I call this "Civilization in a box" (yes, I'm stealing this from Tom Vasel xD ). That's the kind of experience you'll get. One of the two best games from Vlaada Cvàtil (the other is "Mage Knight"). Suggested for two players. More than that and it becomes so long that it's quite hard to get the chance to bring it to the table (I do actually, and a lot, I mean for the average person. Me and my friends are insane). Start from antiquity, meet great philosophers and warlords, commit to discoveries and science, grow your civilization and evolve.. Deep and satisfying. Many of today's popular board games mechanics were invented here. You have to be fond of complex games, or it can be too much to handle xD
Excellent game but very long. If it were a little shorter I'd rate it a 9, as is it's so long I will have trouble finding time and people to play it.
Excellent card based civilization building game. Very deep, very thematic and sometimes overwhelmingly long. It's indeed an epic game with many variants to play. Probably magnum opus of [b]Vlaada Chvatil[/b].  [b]Update:[/b] Rating modified according to a custom rating system.  [b]Favorite mechanism:[/b] Worker placement where workers are used as warriors, farmers, miners, philosophers and citizens, and for covering the missing happiness. They also increase the food consumption.
Dollars-to-play value is unmatched.  This game is possibly one of the very best you can put on your table so long as you are willing to spend the hours on it.  I wouldn't recommend any higher than 3p if you want to keep your sanity, but it can be done.  The improvements over the first edition are subtle yet very, very effective.  A lot of annoyances have been addressed.  If it's been some time since you played the original, you might not remember or even be able to point out specifically what the changes are, but overall, you will find that it [i]feels[/i] better.  The flow is vastly improved by some small changes to the gameplay pipeline and it's a world of difference.  The importance of military is still there, but the race is far different this time around and though you will have to beef up your defenses, you can win (as I did) without participating full-force in the arms race.    Repeated play will make you a much more effective player as end-game scoring can feel swingy if you can't remember the cards.  A simple player aid of possible end-game cards would have gone a long way to making TtA2 a lot friendlier for newbs.  That being said, there's nothing stopping you from grabbing a few cue cards and just making your own player aids.
Just the best game... Just make sure everybody playing has the same level of experience.
Fixed some of the minor griping points with the original and drastically improved most of the game components.  I owe both versions and I generally only use this version now.  I think this version fires the old version making that version pretty much worthless.  I will probably donate my old version because I can't see selling it or trading it as an option.
Digital Version. I see alot of promise here but I have a hard time returning for this one.
A good strategy game.  All rely on your own strategy doesn't let too much to the chance. You need a good party for it, because it can take quite some time to finish the game.
Civilizační hra, kde si každý pomocí karet a žetonků buduje svou civilizaci napříč věky až do současnosti. Zajímavé je, že zde není žádná mapa a ani to nevadí. Hra je poměrně komplexní, člověk musí zajistit jídlo, suroviny, armádu, budovat a hlavně sbírat body. Hráči mezi sebou mají interakci v podobě válek, paktů a událostí. Hra je v deskoherní podobě téměř nevhodná na hraní. V digitální podobě teprve vykvete.
Historic engine builder that managed to pull off a civilization game as a card game wonderfully. Long play time. Expansion with new cards and some balance changes is almost a must have. Wonderful and deep game.
Grace and depth with a helping of spite for your fellow man. A game for a lifetime. Should be much easier to get new players into now as well. So many great tweaks to reduce needless friction.
I have only played the ios version, but it is far and away my favorite digital game. Despite seeing every card every game, a la Twilight Imperium, the game feels extremely repayable and exciting. I have heard the physical version can drag on, but this is certainly not the case on the app. Either way - extremely deep and elegant game capturing the snowballing power of a civilization in conflict and prosperity.
Better than the original, really shines with the expansion, but I can’t imagine playing this in person now. The app takes care of all the cube pushing. Probably have over 500 plays and still going strong.
1st play, 4 players: Very long. The importance of military was understated in the explanation, and got crushed early on. Made it feel even longer.  2nd play, 2 players: Much better, still lost, but it was closer. Had fun and I can see it getting quicker. The app/Steam version appeals.  Bought the Steam version.  
an upgraded rating from the original AGES , mainly, the artwork in the new version is far superior, and whilst the fiddly bits remain -- this is a superior gaming experience if compared to anything out there -- the time element can be a drawback, but if one can find the time, this is one of the best games to table -- many choices, and one needs to keep the balance and not get too top heavy in one area of your civilization -- super absorbing, super interesting, an excellent game, a sure fire winner
Cuda i liderzy 4x Planszetki 4x Mata - własny wydruk 4x REBEL 50X73 "FENIX PREMIUM" 
a True masterpiece. I love it and even if is not my favourite game I think is the best boardgame ever
I have only played this game in its digital version, but the feeling was incredible. I doubt I'll be purchasing it as a physical game anytime soon, as I think I need to master it first before introducing it to my gaming group.
2021-02-16 : First play. Well, not really as I played the previous edition a good number of times and it's not that different - as far as I can remember. As engine builders go, this is top of the line, gears within gears, and the best part is that unlike most engine builders, this one runs again every turn. Exactly the kind of game I like very much.
Erstausgabe mit vollständig deutschem Titel: Im Wandel der Zeiten - Eine neue Geschichte der Zivilisation.
Amazing amazing game. Takes a super long time to play but is very very good. With players who really know what they're doing you can fly through a game pretty quickly.
Thoughts after 2 plays: a 3 player short game and 4 player full game.  The game play (e.g. managing population/resources/science/happiness buying and playing technologies, etc.) is really enjoyable, among the best games I've played. If my rating was on that alone it would be a 9, but a couple of things knock it down a bit:  - Fiddly - probably the most fiddly game I've played, in fact, I think our final scores were only approximations... perhaps within a 10% error. Too many cubes and totals to track... can't see playing this without making some mistakes - End game scoring - there's some randomness during the game, due to card draw and actions of players, but I think it's fine, what bothered me with the full game is the bonus scoring at game end... perhaps (maybe even likely) we played bad, but there were so many bonus cards scored at the end (at least 10) that it degenerated into a point salad type of experience; the # of bonus points scored was 1/3 to 1/2 of total points... I prefer the short game where the bonus are visible at the beginning - Military - still seems very strong... we had one player, effectively knocked out of the game within the first hour and had to sit through the next 5... granted, he could have taken the "Retire" political option, but that's not how we roll. I'm not a "care bear" player, but there's a bit more conflict that I would like to see in a "strategy" game. - Length - the game is really long... but this isn't that big of a deal...  Overall, I'll rank this an 8. After my first play I had this above Clash of Cultures, but now that I got a second play in, I'm not so sure... they seem fairly equal... and I would play CoC with 4 players, TTA at 2 and flip a coin for 3.
It was probably a great game when it came out, but now it's extremely dated. There are several better worker placement/card drafting games that don't rely on dozens of hard-to-keep-track-of-cubes.
As good as its predecessor. We found that common tactics weren't copied very often. Aggressions are harder to win, wars are more interesting now.
Jugado online más de cien veces. Lo compré pero no me atreví a sacarlo a mesa y terminé cambiándolo. La primera partida se puede hacer muy pesado a cuatro jugadores. Nunca descuides lo militar porque es clave. Centrate en lo militar y gasta el resto de tus recursos en algo que te de cultura pero sin llamar mucho la atención.
Through the Ages is mainly a game about balancing your workforce, military might, science, victory points, population, happiness, resources, food and two kinds of action points. Sound like a lot? It is and that's not even all of it. Not only do you need to manage the above, but you need keep your technology that revolves around these aspects current or risk falling behind. I found the above a little tedious especially with the large amount of bookkeeping that needs to be done throughout the game. It also felt like there had to be a little too much effort put into military. This is surprising considering that it's been toned down, compared to the previous edition. That said, the leaders, wonders, and managing/dealing with the various events keep things interesting.  In the end, Through the Ages takes ages to play. Therefore it's not a great game for me to to keep in my collection. I think when the app comes out it would be a decent game to play digitally, so all of the book keeping is automated. While I haven't played the digital version yet, it's sometimes still on my mind. Maybe in the future.
Certainly superior to the original, but it's still a damn long game. And if you slip up early, then it's best to give up and walk away - there's no catch up mechanic here.
No chance yet to play new version, so score is still preliminary.  But definitely the most interesting depth and *enjoyable* complexity in a full-on civilization sim game I've ever had.  I desperately want to play more and am still terrified of the time it requires.
Best civ game on the market. can take long to play but you are never board, always planning ahead.
So far only played the app(+exp), which is superbly done. A really good game, but one I don't think I would enjoy physically. I would give a 10 for the app version, which I highly recommend, but the physical version would propably be a 6. So 8
This is a game that I've always wanted to play, not disappointed. But it's for 3 players. It may get a long downturn with 4.
{     "min_duration": 240,     "max_duration": 360,     "owner": ["Max"],     "players": [3] }
Bit of a learning curve and long set-up, but other than that a great Civilization game handled in an abstract formula. Civilization the card and cube game. Possibly easier to play on the app. This relates to the first edition.
Despite being an incredibly long affair, Through the Ages justifies its term. The mechanics are simple and clear, but the implications and interactions of the various mechanics make this game difficult to wield. Players need to be both efficient and opportunistic, but TtA makes it difficult to be both, which is frankly the beauty of this design. Balancing military, population growth, and corruption, with the ultimate goal of maximizing culture is incredibly difficult, but even in failure it is fun. TtA is a game I strive to master, despite its need for an epic investment of time. 
The length of the game seems to come down to mostly the physical movement required for all of the components. Physically, this game has severe problems due to the FOUR BOARDS (and the expansion adds two more!) that need to be updated every turn, in addition to each player's own board. If you play with four players, expect an all-day event.  The leaders are overwhelmingly white men, so if you want some diversity in your gaming, you'll need to pick up the expansion pack (which is four years out from its original release, by the way), though even that's still mostly white dudes. It does also rebalance some things, too, and upgrades a few of the weaker leaders and nerf the two best wonders.  THAT SAID, every time this comes out it's an event, even if I'm just showing off the pieces. Every game is a new story that sticks with us for months, and every card has a strong emotion attached to it at this point. I dread "Rats." The rules are a bear, but once you get them down, you can expect to go through your turn very quickly.  Also the app is fantastic if you want to get some practice in. Or want to learn the rules, because the manual isn't particularly well organized. Some rules, no matter what, are super fiddly, like discontented workers.  Purchased 2016.
Action Points Auction/Bidding Auction: Dutch Card Drafting Income
Not a bad game, but a bit repetitive and long for its level of fun.  Feels like it overstays its welcome and there are a ton of bits to keep track of.  I never really felt like I was creating a civilization, just building a better card and cube system.
The only civ game worth playing, and a cool new polished version of it.
This is a long long lonnnnng game, several hours with four players, playing tabletop. On my first runthrough I enjoyed it for the first six hours, but then it got to a point where other players were attacking me so much that they removed all my actions and I just couldn't take a turn because I had no energy (action cubes) to do anything. Plus the fact that it took an hour for a round, so waiting an hour to get to my turn where I couldn't do anything except upkeep and pass, was not fun. All I could really do was resign and quit the game. So it's like Risk since there's player elimination, which isn't much fun if you're the player that has to quit, especially after so many hours of play. Other than that I enjoyed the game.
Es un GRAN JUEGO... pero es imposible jugar con el... a 4 con jugadores inexpertos la partida puede durar 5 horas... prefiero jugarlo al ordenador... me rinde mucho más. VENDIDO.
[2006] 3P / 2hrs, Needs Insert iOS = Y  iOS Josh = Y GPlay Kurt = 
Juego progresivo. Hay que ser paciente para armar la victimización desde cero, una vez que armaste un sistema de recursos fluye mucho más el juego.
Complicated to get the hang of it but enjoyable once you understand the rules.
Played 2 times on the table- very long. Played online, much faster and easy to keep track of resources and to plan for next roud.
A true classic. Only flaw is that it almost never gets to the table.
+ Great sense of growth thanks to a tight engine building system  + One of the best civilization game ever + ...But it's not just a simple civ game: it adds challenging and original mechanics to the civ genre  + Brilliant mechanics   = Way. Too. Long. (Especially if played among unexperienced player) = Steep learning curve = It’s a little sad: the digital version experience is way, way better than the physical one in terms of gameplay, since it removes all the bookkeeping annoyances...  - The bookkeeping. - Downtime mainly due to the action points mechanics. - Combinations of ancient and modern elements from an historically perspective... always feel kinda weird. And the lack of a main board with a map doesn't help feeling the theme. - Player elimination issue in more than 2 players - Possibility of kingmaking?  [i]Player count performance: 3>>4=2[/i]
Updated version of [gameid=25613].  Improves: 1. The rules  2. The balance of the cards  3. The military system  4. The artwork   The bottom line: "Despite being a decade old, Through the Ages is an outstanding game of the modern era that can hold its own besides the best games appearing on the market today. A New Story of Civilization takes this winning formula and refines it with improved rules, better balance, welcome adjustments to the military, and an artwork makeover, to make it even better. As a civilization game, this new reimplementation of Through the Ages does an outstanding job of evoking a real sense of theme (despite the absence of a map); it has to be considered the apex of the civ-game genre right now, standing head and shoulders above most of the competition, with few games coming anywhere close to matching it. The need to cross the threshold of a relatively high level of complexity and game time will inhibit some, but those who aren't daunted by the prospect of investing some time into learning and playing this game will find themselves richly rewarded."   See my review here: https://www.boardgamegeek.com/thread/1540434  Data driven strategy tips from 30k of plays https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/1933554/data-driven-strategy-tips
Generally a fine one. Sadly I am not a civilization game fan, and was waiting for the end of the game by the beginning of Age III already. The App sorts out sooo much of all the downtime and its rank is higher, this is for the tabletop version.
Excellent game with rules easy to learn and remember. Its APP is perfectly optimized for phone size display, which is rare in board game APPs w/ same level of complexity.  Recently, played more 3-P/4-P games on APP, which are really fun! Can not stop playing again and again.
Good game, but sadly not worth the effort of bits and trackers and setup.  Staple on the tablet version.  I like the improvements over the original.
I enjoy this once it gets going but I have to be convinced and I would probably not suggest this given the large number of games we have to choose from.
Only one game of the new version so far but I like what I see. I’m not one of these TtA experts – but, hey, I’ve read their threads – and many cards seem to be buffed up such that they’re more interesting. I welcome the idea of stronger yellow cards to supplement production and boost you through lean times and more interesting techs such that card decisions are even more fun.   The de-emphasis of military is particularly good. Before the game felt like it fell into a battle between the guy who jumped out to a huge culture lead and the guy who bided his time building military so he could wage war and steal that culture at the end. The way you would sacrifice units often resulted in Pyrrhic victories.  That’s fine if you like that sort of dynamic but I prefer the new one -- you build a culture engine and a capable military to defend yourself and find ways to outdo the other players. No more end of game VP see-sawing and no more sacrificing of units –this is easily the best improvement in the game.
TTA is a game that demands your attention and repeat plays to truly play well.  It certainly is one of the better board games in the genre that I've played.  The digital version helped get some quick, no setup plays in, which helped me appreciate the game more.
This is one of those rare 2nd editions that preserves all that is good about the original version and makes the game a little better.
Very intense, brain-burning civilization building game.
Due to the length of game play. I have a hard time getting this to the table.    Permanent game in my collection!  :thumbsup:
I loved the first edition, and this 2nd edition is even better. One of my favorite games. Just happen to have 2, so looking to trade one that is was never used and is still wrapped. Looking to trade for terraforming mars or scythe, plus some amount of money (since these 2 games are more expensive)
Fantastic game! The engine building mechanics here are really elegant and there is almost no bookkeeping involved. However, conflict can be intense, especially in a two-player game, and incredibly punishing if a player does not realise his opponent is investing heavy in military.
An excellent, excellent civilization game. The only issues I have with it are its length and complexity, that prevent it from getting played often.
A nice engine builder.    Marred in some minor ways: 1) Iconography on cards is not consistent,e.g. some things require a yellow cube/worker to activate but others (e.g. purple and yellow cards don´t)  2) end of Age 1 deletes "A" leaders, but not "A"  wonders, just as an icon thing.
Top class game. War and Aggression are hugely improved.
One of the best games I've played. Perfectly balanced, with some history chrome and player interaction, fun to play and also very competitive.
We used 5 hours (!) on the first game with 3 players. That's too long for me. I can see that we may cut the time by 1-2 hours after repeated plays. It's very satisfying to play this engine builder. And the theme is implemented solidly. Especially, I like that you cannot avoid the military track. That creates a lot of good tension. However, the text on the cards aren't always clear, and we were forced to look up in the rules and check bgg several time (without succeeding finding the answers some times). I wished they had also been more thorough with the card text. That would have saved us some time. Anyway, a good experience, and I will play again. Rating might go up.
graczy: 2-4 czas: 120  131/115u + gra karciana o budowaniu cywilizacji - złożona mechanika, trudna, czasochłonna @K20
rating based on mobile app, probably lower score if played board game version since there would be a lot of upkeep 
Clever strategy game hamstrung by poorly balanced cards and a very high degree of luck. Choices become less interesting over time if your group plays optimally.
This new edition seems to improve the game over prior editions.
Balancing military while still making strong progress in other aspects of this economic battle is a tense and rewarding experience.
I'm sure it's great as an app, however as a board game, even with 2 people it takes a LONG Time.  And it's not just the length, it's that much of the time is spent bookeeping cube resources and moving cards, not making decisions, hence why the app is likely much more fun.  The actually game is very fun, and amazing, but just couldn't justify playing it, for all the cube management was just work.
Un juego complejo de jugar, facil de aprender y muy entretenido
Outstanding game. Every time building an entire civilization from basically scratch is an unforgettable experience. Pros: 1. Awesome setting. Napoleon, Colossus, and a nuclear bomb in one game! 2. War and politics take an important place in the game 3. Each civilization is getting more and more unique during the game. 4. The game is balanced for 2-4 people and feels different for each setup. 5. The rulebook is big, but the rules are elegant. 6. The mobile app helps to grasp the game. --- Я обожаю создавать цивилизацию со своей неповторимой историей в каждой игре. Карты войны и политики - это удачно реализованное взаимодействие, которого так не хватает во многих евро играх. Правил много, но они интуитивно понятные.
Too long and dont have the feeling of running a Civilization. I will try this one more time knowing the Era III leaders and Wonders to see if my score will change (probably will be lower)
Sold, unplayed in massive (150+) game bundle in 2023
Klasse Spiel mit vielen Möglichkeiten. Nix für schwache Nerven. Es ist kein Aufbau Spiel im klassischen Stil wie es sich mancher wünscht und jeder vor sich hinbaut. Man Mus den gegner beobachten und reagieren ,gegebenenfallsdie Taktik ändern.  Wen man den Kopf dazu hat klasse Spiel!
So smooth. Really does take you on a walk thru history.
the new edition is even better than the previous one, the game play is smother and you must look out everything.... I just love this game
:kiss: secret santa 2015 :kiss: + [url=https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgameexpansion/280833/through-ages-new-leaders-and-wonders]Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders[/url] + [url=https://www.blackfire.eu/product.php?id=21805]Blackfire Overlay (4 pcs)[/url]  [u]SLEEVED[/u] Mayday Standard "Sails of Glory"
The balance tweaks are thorough, subtle, and much improved; I never really liked how military worked in the original game.  Every card seems valuable now given the right circumstances.  I cannot think of a modern game that has had as much data (through BGO) to look at and make balance tweaks than this game.  The overall graphic design and art in the game is also drastically improved; this is visually a beautiful game now, which certainly could not be said for the original.  This is a special game and certainly on the short list of the most prized games in my collection.  
This is a great game and a lot of fun to play.  A very thought provoking game.  I have only played it 2 player so far and would really like to try 3 and 4 player.  Down sides are that the game is very long so if you don't enjoy long games I would pass on this game.  My second issue is that the game can become very one sided because their is no good way to catch up your military if u fall way behind.  The app was made so well I would almost always play that over the physical copy since it makes the game 1/4 the time if not even shorter. 
Love this game! But played it them most as digital version, because It's more comfortable. And that't the reason for only 9 points. But in theory it is a 10/10 game. One of the best!
TTA APP, playing it daily since the beginning, over 300 plays as of 2019-08-13
I have no desire to try this updated edition because I didn't care for the original. I like heavy strategy games, but after four or five played, "TTA" just feels too much like balancing a spreadsheet.
I can see why people like this game, but it's not for me.  It has a serious "rich get richer, poor get poorer" problem.  If you're don't have the strongest military, you're going to keep getting stomped down into the dirt, losing buildings, population, and culture until you have no chance to make a comeback.  I've only played the app version and consider the money I spent on it wasted.  If you want a good civ game, Imperium Classics/Legends is everything TtA wishes it was.
It’s fine, would definitely play other games over this.
Though I have the physical game, I play on iOS all the time.
Played this game 3 times now and i want to play it again and again and again!  Best Game!
Too fiddly (too many bits and pieces). But such a magnificent game.
Played on the app. I don't have a play group that would get this to the table unfortunately, so app it is. Very fun game with a slew of interesting choices. I think each game will play substantially different due to your strategy at the time. 
I was very skeptical that I could enjoy a lot a game that everybody was telling it could last more than 3 or 4 hours. Nevertheless, my very first play (3p, full game mode) lasts 5 hours... and It was a blast!  Yes, sometimes the time between players was considerable, but the rich and deepness of this game has is overwhelming, so I always was planning and thinking about the movements of my opponents and the next actions I should take. I was fully engaged in the game up until the last event card was scored.  A few days later, I downloaded the (amazing) iOS app for iPad. After more than 20+ plays I am still learning and understanding the fine strings this masterpiece is made of. I played it once again on the table, and I confirmed this as one of my favorite board games. I really look forward to getting this game to the table more times soon!
Only played on ipad app, clean. i can't figure it out how tedious must be the maintenance phase on the phisical version. Great game by the way.
50 AMZ https://www.compraegioca.com/ricerca/72627-through-the-ages-a-new-story-of-civilization
Un bon jeu certes. Mais jouer 4h pour un jeu de cartes c'est assez long et frustrant.  Après c'est terraforming mars en nettement mieux. Mais et ce un si grand compliment ?  La partie courte est potentiellement mieux car elle réduit l'imapct de la partie la plus aléatoire le miliaire) ou l'on draw face dawn des cartes très différentes. Et au final il faut faire comme à Magic piocher un peu de tout.  Une rejouabilité et un équilibrage assez impressionant. Il y'a plein de sortie de secours / plan B pour s'en sortir quand le flux de cartes est défavorable.  La version digitale accelère le tout. La rejouabilité est très forte.
Juego estratégico a mas no poder. Tensión durante toda la partida. Largo pero merece la pena. 
+ So many options and tactics + Resource management is one of the best - Combat and wars are bad - Too much administration (not in digital version)
Mechanics: 8/10 Theme: 10/10 Components: 8/10 Replayability: 9/10 Fun: 8/10  Best played with the Digital version.
Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization was one of my all-time favorite board games... Now, this is my favorite one, period.   I love the new graphic design and consider that all its components have been improved. Most important: more than a half of the cards have been changed drastically, or at least tweaked, in order to provide a more balanced game experience. Moreover, all the rule changes make perfect sense and help "cleaning" the game system.   I still consider the playing time as its biggest issue, though, because, even loving this wonderful game as much as I do, it makes pretty difficult to get this gem to the table.  ---  Extract from my previous comments on Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization:  Advice! This game is really tough and heavy! A "serious gamers game", in the, yes, questionable sense of the word. Definitely not the kind of game for casual gamers (in fact, this game represents the antithesis of the concept "casual gamer's game").  I'm absolutely in love with this "built a civilization" themed game.  Brilliant mechanics. Perfect balance between choices-risks. Very small luck factor involved here: the game result will rest on your desitions, never on a bad card drawing or something like that. Perhaps the one and only problem I have with this game is its duration, 'cause it takes at least 4 -5 hours to finish a 3 or 4 players complete game (till the end of age III/beginning of age IV).  A masterpiece, a truly work of art in the world of board game design. My perfect 10.
The app / steam version is SO much better doing the clerical stuff that I fear I'll never go back to the physical version.  I love what it was trying to do, but military is still too important, and event luck can make or destroy your game. Way too long for this.
Excellent game. I am willing to give it a 10-star.  However, it is too long. I prefer the steam version.
Expected to like this game a lot more. I recognize its quality but not for me. 
This is such a perfect Civ game. I love everything about it. 
This remodeling (v4) took an already amazing game (v3) and made it even better.  Is it absolutely perfect?  No.  Is it still a 10?  Definitely.
Only played using the app. Feels like its all positive polish on the already great predecessor.
Simply brilliant. New version improves on the old one.  Not really a game to play with people who aren't into deeply substantial and involved games, though.
Not the fairest game to play (i.e. can get rather mean towards those who are behind), but a rather captivating look at civilization building.  Can also overemphasize point gain / grabbing.  More immersive and inviting than the original.
Estado Caja: Perfecta Estado Material: Perfecto PVP: 68(54€ Juego + 14€ fundas Premium) Coste: 50€ Ahorrado: 18€ 
Only played once, seems like a fun game but it just takes way too long for me. I'd prefer an app-based version that keeps track of all the fiddly cube-moving stuff.
Boring, way too hard to keep track. Way too hard to keep track of your opponent. People make mistakes constantly and don't get caught. Difficult to teach. Not enough interaction... just bad.   I don't understand how this is a top game.
This is by far one of the most interesting and fun building games I've ever played. From the get go you start of with this tiny civilization with spear and shield warriors, small farms, and mines.   By the end you can be the civilization that invents space flight, the internet, and all sorts of marvels. You hire cool scientists and artists from Davinci to Albert Einstein, and even Bill Gates.  If you enjoy building games where you invent technologies, build wonders like the pyramids, and the Eiffel tower, and create vast armies, then this is the game for you.  The first play through, the starter book has you take out all the war and aggression cards, which I don't recommend. The main reason for the card removal is to make learning the game easier, but I felt without those cards it feels like the game is broken and building any military in the game feels useless.   I followed the starter rules to the t the first play through, and let's just say the second play through, with the full rules, is where this game shined.  I was getting bullied by my sisters military in the first half, so toward the second half of the game I acquired more military technologies like modern marine footman and tanks. Then I let her feel the military might my civilization had attained!  I highly recommend if you like building games like Catan and worker games like Caverna/Agricola and if you don't mind long games. Expect about an hour per player your first play through, then as everyone learns to plan their turn on other player's turns, the play time shortens.   You will also enjoy this game if having a powerful civilization that dominates others into signing beneficial pacts and treaties or destroying/pillaging ones that don't.  I don't recommend this game if your the type of person that only enjoys shorter simpler games, as this game is not short although you can use variants that shorten the game, like be done after age 2 like the starter book has you do. I really don't recommend shortening it though because you miss out on a lot of the really cool technologies, leaders, military stuff, and wonders.  One last thing to add. I'm starting to see a pattern in games that have Vlaada Chvatil's name on them, so far this is the third one I've owned and he's 3 for 3 with amazing games.  
I like this game a lot, but I admit it is not for everyone. It is a very long game, even if you are familiar with it. Every decision matters and, of course, the players will want to make the best of their choices, thinking each one very much ahead, considering many possibilities, specially in a competitive environment. Because of it, the late game tends to be tiring.
Rated for Android app.  Cool civilization game. Not totally settled in how I feel about it, but good so far. Feels like a heavier, mapless ancestor to Scythe.
Plays 4, best with 3. Very good game, but a bit long. Don't like gradual "force" through decks A > 1 > 2 > 3 to military/culture. Think Terraforming Mars is very similar, but slightly more streamlined, flexible, and fun. 
Outstanding civ game with an enormous tactical and strategic depth. However, as a physical board game, TTA is not very appealing and very fiddly. I have played tons of games with the app, but it does not hit our table any more.
Crown jewel of my collection, and my absolute number 1 board game.  EDIT After a bunch of plays, I still appreciate it, there's a lot of games I enjoy more, that take a fraction of the time needed for TtA.
The app is FANTASTIC.  One of the best designs I've ever played.
Slightly better streamlined than its predecessor, but still the same game.
Everything I love about the original game, but reducing the value of military/conflict - this opens up a cascade of strategies and (initially) appears to improve the game. Conflict and paying attention to military is still vital, but if playing correctly, that is closer to a cold war situation in most cases and not an all out battle.
Without question, it's the best two player Civ game. Some people like it with 3 or 4, but that's a huge time commitment. Having the players seed the event deck is a really great idea. And a lot is gained by losing the map (I would love to see Vlaada's take on a Civ game with map, however). I don't enjoy the military part of the game because while the simple comparison of scores plus modifiers nicely simulates the futility of the arms race it lacks the rock paper scissors aspect of true military strategy games. The availability of the app, which is great compared to so many other digital implementations and has a much more reasonable playtime, sealed the fate of my physical copy.
Un des meilleurs jeux de civilisation mais une ergonomie de jeux affreuse. L'app est tellement mieux, et c'est dommage car ses mécaniques sont uniques et brillantes !
enormous time investment for somewhat book opening moves and clusterfuck ending. Still I would almost never turn down an invitation, because the game just works?
This is the computer game Civilization completely transformed into a board game. I thought that without a map it would not work, but I was very wrong. It somehow has captured all the finer points of what makes Civilization great, from happiness to science, and although there is a lot of book-keeping, it comes together amazingly well.
I´m usually very sceptical about the highest rated games in the geek because my taste is mostly quite different. I also hated the "art"work of the first edition. So I never thought I would like this game. My mistake to miss the opportunity to play this great game earlier.  
Both (Digital and Physical) Digital: CGE Digital (Steam)
Awesome design! It surely deserves it position on the BGG.  However, outstays its welcome quite a bit.
TtA is the  most exhausting and satisfying game I have ever played.
Velmi dlouhá strategická civilizační hra, jejím cílem je postavit co nejlepší civilizací. Ve hře si musíte získat zdroje, zvýšit a uživit svou populaci, postavit si městské budovy a tím si zvýšit úroveň kultury a vědy a v neposlední řadě je důležité si vydržovat armádu.(1-4 hráči)
A bit to long and in the finish it exceeds quite big, compared to Terraforming Mars the boost is a bit high. You can easily fall behind. Don't plan to win in the first games...
Perhaps I've grown as a player since I tried this game years ago, or perhaps this newest edition really does fix the problems that I had with the first. But TtA is a great civilization game! I love games where you can watch the development happen before your eyes. The choices and decisions to make are plentiful and interesting. The competition stays high and the different routes to success all pose their strengths and problems if pursued. The idea that this game has been balanced by using data from thousands of online games is intriguing, and the balance of options can really be felt.  The new artwork is excellent.  I'm still not a fan of the fiddlyness of moving the cubes around all the time, and honestly I would have liked maybe different shapes for resources vs. workers (as my brain still couldn't differentiate on colour differences alone) but I'm sure this cleans up with multiple plays.  Also, this is a looonnng game which isn't always my favourite thing, but I didn't find myself tired with TtA at all by the end.  It can get a bit messy by the end with extra actions available and resources and food, etc., but it is all manageable as long as you stay focused. Overall- an excellent game!  
This game is AWESOME. Awesome by its dimensions, awesome by its cleverness and by the addiction it triggers in me. Woa.
Quel jeu ! L'interaction est forte : tu es obligé de suivre toutes les actions de tes camarades pour ne pas te faire larguer sur un aspect. La tension est excellente, les possibilités nombreuses et les choix compliqués. Je ne mets pas 10 car le jeu est trop exigeant pour qu'on n"y joue que de temps en temps.
Zu kleinteilig, langwierig und fitzelig. Mir gefällt die starke Rolle des Militärs nicht, weil ich nicht gerne angreife noch angegriffen werde. Die "friedliche Variante" ist weder Fisch noch Fleisch!
I only own the digital version of this game; I've never played the physical board game.  [b]Comments:[/b]  I love civilisation games but the high level of aggression in this game is not really to my liking.
This is a truly wonderful game. I feel that as I keep playing I keep finding more nuances.
This is hands down the best Civ game.  If you like Civ games, and you for some wacky reason haven't tried this yet, turn off your electronic device and go do so right now.  There are myriad choices and strategies.  Materials are critical but you don't spend the game Agricola.  Sorry, I meant starving.  We played the beginner version (in which you play 3 of 4 ages) and for two players who never played before, including putting stickers on pieces, the game was 3.5 hours.  So, keep that in mind.  Playing the advanced version on our second playthough was about the same time frame.  That being said the full version of the game is far superior due to the interesting cards in the final age.  Even though the full game makes the end game scoring more random, I still enjoyed it because it feels like the players get to determine what cards/commodities/stats score.  Excellent game.
Captures the one more turn addictive game play of the great civilisation games. Initially you feel overwhelmed by choice and the synergy between cards can be quite opaque. With more play you begin to see the patterns in the early draft that can drive powerful strategies. Single cards which seemed over priced when you first begin to play start to be worth 3 actions as you see the longer term strategy they enable. Fantastic balance and engaging game play make this one of my favourites.  Two issues should be mentioned. This game should never be played with 4 players unless they are all experienced and quick in their play. Otherwise, it can be a tedious chore that over stays its welcome. I do enjoy the different feel in the pace of the card row and increased interactivity, but simply can't stomach the amount of down time and game length with this many players.   The upkeep in this games is not insignificant and adds to the time it takes to play. This has really been driven home by the release of the app, where games that previously took 3 hours can now be complete in under an hour.  The app has basically killed any want to play this at the table again. But, that doesn't detract from this being one of the all time great board games, and it will have a permanent place in my collection.
The best civ game out there. You just can't beat the amount of replay-ability and tactical/strategic decisions this game has to offer. And while no game is without any faults, this one does what it sets out to do. Truly a masterpiece
I was hooked after my first play, even though I lost badly to my partner who played this game over and over for years.  After third play I'm a bit disappointed, the game drags way too long for what it has to offer imo. We tried playing 2 and 3 players, game became very repetitive with my partner using same or very similar tactics/moves each game. There is no balance for new and experienced players with this game, from my experience newbies gonna loose every time ; )  I will try playing again, but without greater enthusiasm.
A good game at heart, but waaaaay too long and fidly for my tastes.
One only big issue: length. Really interesting and deep, just too long and after hours a bit repetitive. Next BGG's #1
At least as good as the original. The long play time is the only thing that keeps me from trying to get this to the table.
A good streamlining of the original, and a fantastic game.  Played a lot of this on the app recently and its brilliance is not diminished by lots of fast plays.  Sometimes the event deck just hoses you - no tactics, rats (or no rats), no aggressions, etc. - which can suck, and the incentive to dogpile the losing player is still real strong, but everything else is so strong it gets a pass.
The board game, for what it is, is too long, too much down time & too fiddley with cubes. Play the app version instead! Far better!! (Sold my board game after playing the app & never looked back). However, if you have time & patience, it’s a brilliant design that’s completely immersive.
Es fühlt sich tatsächlich so an, wie das PC Spiel Vorbild "Civilization". Lange Wartezeit, da alle Spieler ihre Züge komplett abwickeln bevor der nächste dran ist. Viel Buchhaltung und viele Regeln. Schwer vernünftige Kombos zu erkennen. Viele Karten, die man kennen lernen muss. Kein Spiel für Gelegenheitsspieler. Glücksfaktor beim Aufdecken der Karten, Glück bestimmt oft den Sieger, lange Spielzeit auch wenn Sieger schon vorher absehbar.  z.B. "Race for the galaxy" hat einen ähnlichen Glücksfaktor durch das Kartenziehen, jedoch nur eine Spielzeit von ca 20 Minuten. Das Glück lässt sich dann durch mehrere Partien leicht relativieren. Als App vorhanden, auch hier lange Spielzeit obwohl die KI nicht so lange nachdenken muss, wie echte Spieler...; 1h Spielzeit ist happig für ein Spiel auf dem Handy. Man sollte es mal gespielt haben, aber ein Dauerbrenner wird es nicht.
Incredibly long and complex, not really my cup of tea unless I played through it on an app 10 times before
Along with all the other glowing comments let me add this one: this game has, hands dow, the best rulebook I have ever seen.  The game is complex, but every step is spelled out with clear examples, exceptions to rules are listed, and an incredibly helpful "fist game" is programmed out.  My group all picked up this game de novo, yet every time we had a disagreement on what to do, the answer was right there.
Good engine builder(TB, many sources)  Very complex, economic, long playtime, army, attack other players. No central area board but a market (where cards can be purchased from. Has variable player powers) and the tracks. Has bidding and income. Has cubes for worker and resources, depending on the card they are placed on. Has multiple catch-up mechanics. I didn't like the gameplay
A 3 hour game (at 2 players) that feels too short. Every game you play a different strategy, a different engine. Seeing your civilization (and by extension, engine) evolve through the ages and over 3 hours is incredibly satisfying. Easily my favourite competitive game, civilization game and engine builder. I can't imagine ever getting bored of it.
I have only tried the previous reincarnation, which is 99.9% the same.
The GAME of civilization, the most deep and finely made experience for the genre. If you are a board gamer who likes more hardcore kind of games, you are really into an unforgiving and intense experience of civilization building and management, this is your game. Surely not made for everyone, needs a lot of carefull thinking and takes a lot of time(I think that, for time purposes, is best played in 3) but it will leave you with a sense of completion at the end, wheter you won or lost.
I picked up this game on sale and on the strength of it's rating here. I have yet to play it. I'm looking forward to the experience.
It is undoubtedly a good game. A really good game. But our game lasted over 5 hours. I don't see any reason for this game to be this long. I honestly stopped having fun after the first 2 hours. If only the game length could be cut down to 2 - 2,5h this would go all the way up to an 8 or 9 on my scale. With a game length of 4h+ I will probably never play this again.
Love the epic feeling of it. We didn't like the artwork. We also prefer civ games with maps.
Rating previous to June 2018: 8 Rating previous to Jan 2019: 8.11
Played it with four people and we had to spread it out over multiple nights to get it finished. Still epic.
Excellent civ game...only played once and I want to try it again. 
Gave one of my very few 10 ratings to the original version. Played a mock-up of a playtest version a couple times, and while the toned down military takes it down a notch in terms of tension, I enjoyed it greatly, and this may also earn a 10 once I've had a chance to give it a few plays (I don't rate anything a 10 without many plays).  Updated to 10 after an alarmingly large number of plays :)
Excellent civ game.  Have been using a couple of the solo variants from the forums with this (Tom's and Zips variants).  They can provide an easy to implement bot, which allows you to concentrate on building your own civilisation. 
The more I play this game, the more I love it. So gracefully balanced, no two games are the same, and it is seldom clear who will win. But alas, I've played it too much. It has lost its charm, and I am ready to relieve this game from my collection.
I have played the boardgame and the digital version 250+. I love this game it is my favorite. In addition, an expansion is coming next year for which I am very excited!
#32  Never play it with 4 player! Takes way too long. Beside that it's a very interesting civ game.  [c] Theme:          :star::star::star::star::nostar: [size=7]Very good[/size] Gameplay:       :star::star::star::star::nostar: [size=7]A lot of interesting decisions[/size] Interaction:    :star::star::star::nostar::nostar: [size=7]You can fight a little bit[/size] Artwork:        :star::star::star::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Could be nicer[/size] Luck:           :star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Little, random cards[/size] Strategy:       :star::star::star::star::nostar: [size=7]Multiple strategies possible[/size] Components:     :star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Could be better[/size] Play duration:  :star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Unfortunately very long[/size] Easy to teach:  :star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Ok (45min)[/size] Rules quality:  [size=7]not read[/size] Setup time:     :star::star::star::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Ok[/size] No downtime:    :star::star::star::nostar::nostar: [size=7]Ok[/size] Replay value:   :star::star::star::star::nostar: [size=7]Different strategies possible, a lot of different cards[/size] [/c]
For history fans and Civilization series players  but not only.
I have the digital copy.  I enjoy it and it makes it clear that this game needs an app.  There I said it.
THE Civ game.  Not really sure what could possibly be improved.
Really great game, frankly one of the best Civ games ever made.   But the app largely makes the physical game redundant. Far less fiddly and you can play a lot more games a lot faster.   The physical game does still work, and it's still great - it just barely hits the table.
One of the most uninspired games I have ever had the disappointment to play, especially considering it's placement in the BGG rankings. The excuse I generally hear is.. 'It's better on the app'. OK fine, but this is a board game we are talking about. Thematically inconsistent from the get go (ages colliding and making zero sense) and the pill shuffling feels like the designer couldn't be bothered to come up with a central mechanic that ties it all together. Even back in it's day I'm amazed this ever got played.
What can I say about this game, simply Epic. But this was not always the case, when I first opened the box and started to read the manual I thought what have I bought here, a box full of complicated bits and pieces (or so I thought), but I Persevered and watched a few tutorials online and I’m so glad I did. This is my highest rated board game to date.  I’ve played this at 2 & 3 players, in my opinion it plays best at 2 and once you understand the rules it can easily be played in 3-3.5 hours (2 players)  The perfect civilization game!!!!
Really good game. Really Deep. Only for the players who likes long games. But... It's fantastic. One of the best ludic experience I had in my life.
2021 Rank: #19 [-12] :: I grew up playing Civilization games on my computer, and TTA captures the feeling of that more than any other game I've played. Build your civilization over three ages, improving your infrastructure, developing technologies, and building your armies to crush your fellow players. This newer version smooths out some of the rough edges of the first game, which helps with the upkeep. The phone app is excellent, and it's also available on BGA. 
Amazing game that also has a fantastic app you should buy if you like Through the Ages.  Great engine/tableau building experience where you take your civilization from antiquity to the modern age. The advancing card row allows players to draft and deny cards they or their opponents really need to improve their units and buildings. A military track exists as an option for players to punish those who build too greedy of a victory points engine.  This game does run long with a full 4-player compliment but is very deep and has plenty of replayability.  Very cutthroat and intense at 2 players.  10/10 for me, I haven't stopped playing asynchronous games on the app since I've downloaded it.  
I can't put my finger on it, but I like this a lot better than Nations, although not quite as much as Patchistory.
Wonderful game.  Deep and very satisfying.  I feel like I have a lot to learn in order to play it well, but it is an absolute pleasure to and challenge to play. 
One of the best strategy and civilization boardgame ever, with a right group of pro players it's very challenging and enjoyable
Beszerzés: 2020.07.17. (14391 Ft.) Sleeve: 50x74 (329)
Stressful, but fun. The military aspect produces bad vibes
Long, top card game, 1 hour plus 1 hour per player minimum. Big down time too esp. at 4 players.  Efficiency is key. No catch-up mechanism, game grows in scale. Little player interaction except warfare where weakest is picked on. Knockable player scoreboards not really a problem. 
I was so excited to try the new version of the game, but boy was I disappointed. Not only is the game ridiculously long, but most of its "depth" comes from non-inspiring cube pushing. action optimization is one of my favourite mechanics, but when the ultimate goal is generate more cubes so you can spend them in order to boost cube generation, it is just not that fun. I love card driven games where you try to chain combos, build on traits and triggers, so there is absolutely no way I would pick TTA over Underwater Cities or Terraforming Mars. TTA did get more interesting in the later ages, where leaders would grant you some cool ongoing effects, but why should I waste two hours+ when most good tableau builders start right at that point :/      
Includes E-Raptor Insert for base + expansion UV Print, Licensed Insert, no glue required. www.e-raptor.pl
It's a great game, but it's  too long. I like the engine you create and how every resource is scarce and important, so there's always something to work on and something you desperately need. I really appreciate the level of interaction between players. There's some direct conflict and there's competition for cards, but you don't feel like players are targeting you or ruining your engine, instead it's all about how much you develop your army. You need to be aware of other players and you're interested in their turns, but you don't have to keep track of all of their resources every turn.  My one problem with the game is that it's long. It's rewarding and interesting because of it  because you see your civilization grow and choices in the early game affects the rest of the game, but it's also hard to justify playing this over playing 2 other games in the same time.
Draft makes this random, you play what the games gives you. Agression doesnt make any sense - you have to develop crazy army to succes, war for culture is nice tho. Tracking every player moves is almost impossible, people make mistakes very often. Game takes at least 1h per player +1h, Our last game for 3 took 6h. Waaay to long for this game. Concept is nice, rules arent hard but this game does not forgive mistakes. Also because it lasts soo long and of the random draft the decisions you have made before does not care at all. Probably will never play this again.
I would have wanted to see some more rebalancing of the great old version.
Long, long card-based game of civilization building.
One of the best board game I ever played, surely I need more time to rate it fully.
An epic card-driven civilization game that takes you from the Bronze Age to the Internet - and yet somehow doesn't include a map?! Well, that's not how I pictured the best civ game, but it's a corker.  I've logged dozens of plays of this, although very few of them have been over a board - most of them have been online. On top of that, I've played literally hundreds of times against the AI in the extremely well-implemented phone app (including the expansion). I've beaten all the Challenges, including the expansion, but one. The last one still eludes me after a hundred or so attempts.
Really tough initial learning curve. High number of viable winning strategies and very competitive. High replay value, same cards available for every game but you still never play the same game twice.
1. STRATEGY - 8   2. DEPTH - 8   3. PLAYER INTERACTION -  7   4. REPLAYABILITY -  7   5. THEME INTEGRATION -  7   6. LUCK INDEPENDENCY -  8   7. ORIGINALITY -  9   8. COMPONENTS QUALITY -  9   9. RULES -  8   10. FUN FACTOR -  7   Total 7.8
This game has a lot of player interaction but I can not watch others play well. because too many information. So I feel it can be multiplayer solitaire.  
Really interesting, but really hard. A game can be played for whole life.
Goede balans in de base game en veel tactieken zijn uit te proberen in deze kaartgame. Met twee is dit vrij vlot te spelen in 2.5 uur max. Met 4 lijkt dit net iets teveel en is ook heel moeilijk uit te leggen aan medespelers. 3 is doenbaar als iedereen weet wat hij doet en dan is de colonization ook interessanter dan met twee. Het spel heeft veel zaken verbeterd sinds de vorige versie.  Zo is combat toegankelijk en niet volledig straffend.  De mechanismen zijn ook mooi verweven.  Het kost wel een beetje tijd en inzet om dit spel deftig te leren en ook wij merkten na 10 keer spelen dat we nog enkele fouten gemaakt hadden.  Thematisch: 7/10 Strategy: 10/10 Variabiliteit: 8/10 Complexity: 5/5 
Never thought there can be a better game than Civilization.
08.2017  Playing TTA was sort of like reading The Grapes of Wrath: I felt I should do it but I question whether it was a rewarding experience. The mechanics are sleek and impressive but I didn't find them compelling. Player interaction is low and what there is feels a bit random, like in the event deck, or a plain beat down, like in the aggressions. Finally, add to that 10-20 minute turns (my first game with four took 5 hours and we still didn't get through the last round or two of Age III before Joey's was closing) and I don't myself looking forward to another play of this.   PROS -Art & components are high caliber. -Mechanics mesh well and it is cool how the resources work. -Card abilities felt thematic. -Seemingly good balance, at least after hearing the stories of the first edition.
Good game but it lacks some interaction between players and is a bit long to play for me to love it. But if you are looking for a civilization-type game  it is one of the best out there !
The best civilization game out there. Play it! That's all I can say abou the game.
* Gioco strategico * 2-4 giocatori. Ideale per 3 * 120 minuti
Un jeu de civilisation des plus complets (manque peut-être un solo de classe) mais aussi très exigeant. C'est vraiment de la catégorie expert, comme beaucoup de jeux de Vlaada Chvátil. Tout est assez logique et cohérent. Si bien que les livrets de règles qui paraîtront indigestes sont en fait très simples à appréhender, tout comme une partie. Toutefois, il y a un paquet de petits détails à se souvenir, notamment dans le déroulé d'un tour qui doit être scrupuleusement respecté si on ne veut pas favoriser un joueur. De plus, il faut se faire à l'idée que le premier tour est très réduit par rapport aux autres manches, en cela que beaucoup d'étapes sont à passer. On entre dans le jeu doucement, en évitant certaines aspects, certaines mécaniques comme se taper dessus. Car il faut bien voir qu'avant de se cogner, il va avant tout falloir faire grandir sa civilisation sur pas mal d'aspects. Si tout le monde part au même stade, notre stratégie, nos choix vont nous conduire vers une civilisation très personnalisée. Ce n'est que lorsque l'on aura acquis les règles de base que l'on pourra intégrer l'ensemble des règles pour des parties encore plus épiques. Très exigeant mais aussi très long (même si le temps file à une vitesse prodigieuse). À ne pas mettre en toutes les mains donc.
This is really a great board game version of the PC game Civilization. I really love it, but it has two major flaws, which brings the rating down 1 point each: Too long and Too fiddly. The icons are unfortunately not so intuitive as I had wished. I've tried it just once with the full rules and 4-player. Probably is the game best with 2 players, but then you can't use the pact cards.  After playing it over 10 times, I increased the rating to 9. But I always avoid to play it with 4 (then I would rate it 6) and prefer playing it with 2, as the time is normally less than 3 hours.  This new 4th edition, is even better, so I sold the old version aftyer buying this.
Having played a couple of games in both the PC and on Boardgame arean both against AI and human player this is a game that is both good and quite frustrating. It is a complex game where you constantly need to make choices between multiple things you all need. So it only gets a 7 due to that it is so frustratingly hard to be really good.
Update 01/23 - played it in person once, 4p. Game took 7-8 hours, way too long. I would only play it again with experienced players.  As a digital game it's a 9. Not sure how to rate as a physical game - a great game with a RIDICULOUS amount of downtime. ----------------------  Rating reflects asynchronous play in the Android app and on Boardgaming-online.com - I suspect playing in person would reduce rating by a point due to the length and book-keeping required. Played about a dozen times.  Very good game. Trying to balance the several production engines is quite addictive. Two features of the game make it not as great as it could be. First and foremost, the unavoidable tendency to gang up on the player who is behind, which makes it almost impossible for him/her to catch up afterwards. Second, the endgame is too swingy for my tastes due to the powerful Age III events and wars. I need more experience so I can know the events by heart and prepare accordingly.
Steep learning curve. This game has much more going on than it might first appear. It improves over time.
The game that first made me realize that it is replayable.
Probably not for us.  Military picks on weak and not many catchup mechanisms when you're behind.  Plus takes 3-5 hours
A masterpiece. Wonderful tension throughout and great thematic effects on every card. The wild swings in the game are thrilling and even the largest deficits can be overcome with wars, aggressions and strategic play. The only knock on this game is the time to play, but it never feels like it drags. Definitely worth playing 1-2x per year, minimum.
Excellent civilization game!  I have not play Sid Meier Civilization video game since the 2nd edition but Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization really reminds me of it.  You have to balance your Food, Ressources, Science & Culture production.  You also need to built Military units and keep your civilization happy. You need food to increase population and feed them. You need population to work in buildings or become Military unit You need Ressources to produce Military unit and build building You need Science to develop better technologies You need Military to get benefit from event instead of penalty.  You can also hurts other player if your Military is stronger. You need Hapiness otherwise you won't produce You also need Culture because the goal of the game is to have the most Culture point! If you love game in which you have many options but not enough actions to do them all, this game is one of the best that I know! The only 2 downside are: - first time can't be played in a 3 hour game night (at least not with rules explanation) - there will be alot of downtime with more than 2 player
I love the new version - the new artwork is a thing of beauty. New design is just so much better. The best civilization game I own. 
My Rank: 3 [MICROBADGE=37742][MICROBADGE=138][MICROBADGE=18449][MICROBADGE=39627] Another awesome Vlaada game. Rated a 9 after 1 solo play of first game. It has risen to 10 after more plays, particularly on iPad/Steam.
Great game, but too long. You could do much better for the amount of time you put in this.
Лучшая игра всех времен и народов! Чистейший восторг! 
Haven't played the original so much that I can comment this one with any sense of what I'm saying. This is a long, complex and deep game. One which you need many matches to get a hang of, and after that, maybe years to master.   As for now I enjoy it somehow, not completely because the nuances are lost to me and I certainly don't feel the strong lacerating feelings of loss and desperation other games give me regarding decision making (say Paths of Glory, or even Race for the Galaxy), and that is probably only because the consequences of my decisions are not immediately apparent to me. As such I need to play more, waiting for the divine inspiration of insight to suddenly click with my perception system.
2-4 spillere,  kar 8.605, vg 4.37, Rank x [13.6.18] kar 8.559, vg 4.37, Rank 3 [7.1.19] kar 8.453, vg 4.40, Rank 6 [18.8.20]
What can go wrong with war game without a map? In Through The Ages: A New Story of Civilization, nothing. The cards are balanced, tactical move decision every turns of the game, having to react to opponent's move accordingly. Theme is amazing even though it's just pictures on card. However, experienced player will always beat new player's ass, so recommended to play with same level player.
Includes: Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders
Going to reserve comment until I play more games of TTA, there is a LOT to explore. From both my plays, all I can say now is that I LOVE THIS GAME. It's not a game, it's a design masterpiece by a true genius.  Update: 24-05-2020: Another one that we removed from the collection when purging. The TTA app is one of the best apps I have ever used - and the physical copy would never come out again. So we really didn't need it.
Weight: 4.41 / 5Complexity Rating   DesignerVlaada Chvátil
I hate to buck the trend but the original was visually more appealing less clutter and compact.  This New version has several graphic flaws and inconsistencies (like military isn't always red but white?).  But the play is better. If it weren't so dang ugly I might enjoy it more.
Fantastic game. Has this beautiful property that I love where the game offers much more than you can actually execute before the game ends, so to play competitively you must _ruthlessly_ prioritize and focus your strategy. Every action contributes toward your success, even though you can't quite tell in the moment (but you can feel it looking back). It's very similar to 7 Wonders in this way, but IMO more intense, slightly more complex, and in some ways more directly competitive with other players.  Definitely play this digitally, as keeping track of rates and supply takes way too long physically. Digitally, games take me a really nice, solid, fun 50-60 minutes. Physically, they take 3ish hours... just not as fun.
I tend to like civilization games a lot despite their bizarre ahistorical nature; they're often addictive and have a great sense of progression.  This is certainly true for Through the Ages.  Every technology you develop or building you construct feels essential to progress and also distinguishes you from you peers.  The impressive thing is they've done this without a map.  Playing a civilization game without a map sounds wrong on principle, but I continue to underestimate the power of card based games.  As for the mechanics, I tend to like this sort of action point system especially when there are many actions and differing action values.  The card row is excellent; this game might have been ruined if you simply drew one card blind.  I like the player interaction involved with the politics actions.  They may feel too mean to some but it feels fine and quite thematic to me.  Auctioning for colonization also feels novel in the civilization genre.  Every little decision is difficult in this game and it feels like there are many viable strategies.  However, there are a number of negative aspects:  1) The downtime kills this game at 3-4 players.  The round structure is set up so that you make 100 decisions on your turn and everyone else has little to do.  Of course downtime will improve with multiple plays but that's a demanding journey.  2) It takes an extraordinarily long time to accomplish anything (possibly due to the downtime).  You always don't have enough food, or not enough science or not enough raw materials.  And therefore, it feels like you have to plan ahead and count numbers and cubes continuously to perform well which isn't the most fun activity to me.  3) From reading on the forums here and from my experience, the cards do not seem balanced enough for my liking (I'm mostly thinking of leaders and wonders here).  4) Most of the game is very heads down on your player board and moving cubes around; you'd think a civ game would feel more social.  5) The final nail in the coffin is the fiddliness.  There are so many little rules to remember that you are bound to mess something up on the 1st or 2nd play.    Fortunately, there is a digital version that fixes many of these flaws.  Before Through the Ages, I never enjoyed a digital implementation of a board game more than the original but here we are.  
A good example of a good reimplementation. The old version is still one of the better games, but this one is better.  What holds me back not giving a 10? Allthough watered down in this new version, the game still has a major focus on military (with no alternative compared to for example  Nations where you have military vs stability). The other reason is that it is a long game, which isn't bad persé, but it takes commitment (maybe i just have commitment issues ;) ).  These aren't critisisms, but these make it not a game for everybody (and maybe only for the connaisseur?). It's an aquired taste.
Fantastic game.  I have only played the app version.  I imagine the board game edition has a lot of accounting to keep track of which could be difficult and frustrating. 
Loving this game at the moment!!  Played it a fair few times but I still don't feel like I've tried all the strategies.  I like CIv builders and this is one of my favourites.
Love the original and this makes some nice tweaks and component upgrades.
This is a long game.  That being said, it is worth the time you put into it.  This game will take an entire evening and more to play but it allows you to really feel like you're in control of a whole civilization over the course of all of history.  It's place is well deserved among the top games, even if it doesn't reach the table that often.
Excessively long (even online), way too much snowballing, essentially no catch-up mechanisms (and plenty of ways to make players falling behind fall behind even further). A gargantuan and inelegant set of take-that military mechanics that are hard to use, take up space, and have no place in a game as long as this. The appallingly lazy final scoring mechanism is just the last nail in the coffin.
I'd give it an eleven if I could. Loved the original and gave that a 10. This improves upon that is many small but important ways. The military tweaks are perfect.
Very nice Civilization game. It is really polished and you get the frustration of not being able to do it all.  Note though that it will take a while especially with 3-4 players.
It is time consuming, and the things you can do in the Age I are similar to most of it in Age III which is sliiiightly disappointing. However, it offers many strategy opportunities and is full of choices, each one very important for your civilization's development. Some things are imbalanced a bit when it comes to 2-player sessions. A 4-player sessions is ONLY recommendend if everyone partaking has played it a few times. Otherwise the game will take, well, ages...  3-players seem optimal, it includes everything while also not taking too much time. Is it worth the money? Yeah, I do believe so. But it does not take 2 hours. A 2-player session is about 4 hours, and 3 players is 5-6 hours.  Good rule of thumb for playtime: Number of players + 2 = Total hours to play (e.g. 4 players -> 4+2=6 hours)
Ok, so this is a HEAVY game. If you are not a heavy heavy board gamer DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!! Otherwise, this game is brilliant. It's thinkie and fun. But it takes ages to play the actual game, which is why this score is the way it is. My friends and I all play the app version of this game now. We all have the physical version, but the app just speeds up gameplay, and also our friends are in different countries, so we just jump onto skype, and the TTA app and play together while chatting. For the app version, the rating easily goes up to 8.8
Really want to try this one day, when I got it way back when it was just too advanced for me. Now I'm more than capable of playing it and I'd love to one day! Just hard to find someone who has it.
No catch-up mechanism, you get behind for a single turn, you lose (hours later).  Might be an ok iOS game, but would never play F2F.
It takes longer than expected to finish the game. The game is hard to master, but I do love the challenge this game brings. It is difficult to find an opponent to set up the game and this game brings an intermediate threshold to enter. I have played an order of magnitude more time in digitized version, due to the above reasons.
It is long... really long.  Really good, but really long.
Have only played the digital version, and played that one A LOT a few years ago.  Own the board game but haven't actually played it in that format.  It's a fine civilization-type game and certainly plays in a lot less time than the digital version of Sid Meier's Civilization series! {EDIT 9/27/23: Downgraded to 8; the tracking of cubes is fiddly.}
Still need to scratch deeper in this game but I like it. Very strategic, lots of meaningful decision to take.  The game can be long and so far, have played with in multiple sessions. Opportunity to bring this one to the table often are not great.
Einfach nur ein wunderbar komplexes Aufbau Spiel mit unfassbar viel taktischer Tiefe und vielen Strategien.
Great game, but just to long for me. I prefer Nations.
I thought I'd really like this, but I don't.  In part because the military game is so unforgiving; but mainly cos it's just a bit too... Euro... for my taste
This game is so damn good. So much you can do, so many paths to victory. What a game! There are so many details and rules, but all of them make sense in the game. An excellent brain teaser for strategy. Mr. Vlaada has done it again!  The ios app is equally amazing.
Very meaty and strategically deep game. I like it, but it's surely not for everyone.   The rules are plenty and complicated, and the entry level is high, discouraging for new players. The needed time investment is also pretty high (longer than the box says). Due to that, I can't just put it on the table as often as I'd like. But if I do get to play it, I highly enjoy it. A good excersise for my brain cells, very involving, competitive and mentally taxing. You alwasy want to do more in this game than your resources allow for. But it's a good thing here, forcing you to plan ahead and make your decisions wisely, as the game is highly unforgiving for mistakes. Also worth of note, the amount of game componens for the price is great.  My main complaint here is that the military strength is a bit unbalanced in regard to other available strategies, so investing your resources in it is usually just a waste.
Yera  Se dice que es "el juego" de civilizaciones (ademas del mega civilization)  A mi... no me encaja. ya escribire mas.   No cuento ninguna partida jugada porque, literalmente... nunca he terminado de jugar una partida. dos veces he empezado con el y no he pasado de mover cubitos y no entender una mierda lo que estoy haciendo (y quedarme atascado con ello).   la nota es provisional. no me peguen plz
They made it less fiddly and prettier, which is a definite advantage--but some of the card changes seem suspect. Time will tell. [EDIT] It is an improvement over the original, but lately I've felt ,less forgiving about its core flaws: downtime, a sameyness over multiple plays, and the weird ahistorical/acultural themelessness that permeates many civilization games.
Game hay, đáng chơi, chỉ là không có dịp chơi nhiều, điểm số được cho dựa vào cảm xúc lần đầu chơi 
Love this new version. It is prettier and plays easier.  Can't find anything that is changed for the worse from the old version.  A bit long and a bit fiddly, but I think that goes with the territory with these kind of epic games.
Bookkeeping and downtime is a bit pain in the arse. The app version helped tremendously.
The old one was a 10, after some adjustments, the new one is a perfect 11.
Imho not better/different enough yo replace my dear old one. One of all time favourites
Millora el que per a mi era inmillorable. Redueix el pes de l'atzar i de la carrera militar i anivella les poques coses que potser eren o massa bones o massa dolentes.  Opinió després de més partides: potser és perque he jugat massa i el tinc una mica cremat, però a les útimes partides m'he aborrit una mica. Es fa una mica llarg (jugant a taula) i a vegades és molt evident el que has de fer cada torn, ja que realment no tens tanta capacitat de decisió (les cartes que et queden a cost 1/2 et marquen molt el que has de fer). També em dona la sensació que hi han poques estrategies per fer punts que siguin viables, o jo no en se fer més, de manera que es repeteixen una mica les partides. Amb l'expansió de maravelles/liders potser arreglen alguns d'aquests problemes, però el que jo trobo a faltar de veritat son més tecnologies que et permetin fer més estrategies. És una llàstima perque el joc té idees maravelloses, però ara mateix no tinc gens de ganes de jugarlo... Li baixo la nota amb molta pena (va ser un dels meus primers 10s).  Opinió després de la primera exp: tornat a pujar a 10, les combinacions de lider/maravelles noves tornen a fer el joc perfecte.
Flawed. The game is fun for three hours. But it lasts for six hours.
A good game but my play group does not like Civilization games which takes forever to play...
Really good strategy game, i love how the game cover the age from BC to 20th century. At least need a couple of game to learn the strategy and how it works
A brilliant, deep, strategic civ builder, with a fantastic new design to boot. I love the myriad of things that need to be managed, balanced, and prioritised, culminating in an exceptional game experience. The only cons for me, personally, are (i) excessive game length (which limits how often this gets to the table), (ii) fiddlyness/bookkeeping element, (iii) downtime between turns, and (iv) the fact that it can get quite aggressive, as I'm typically a pacifist eurogamer.  *Update: the brilliant app alleviates most of my above concerns by making the game wonderfully accessible and allowing for immersive solo play against AI. Fantastic work by the development team; app gets a 10/10 from me.
Too complex to be a bard game, would work better as a multiplayer computer game. The investment of time is too big, you need to spent two days to understand how it works. Thought the game itself is great.
Bought for my boyfriend as this is not the type of game I would normally enjoy but was a suprisingly good experience. I will never be too fond of strategic games but this one I like. Maybe because I recognize the leaders and wonders making it thematically easier to relate to.
Some tweaks to the earlier version make this a little more balanced.  Still a great game, have only played the app version against other humans so far.
Not bad. Not suitable for more then 2 players, due to long gameplay. Too much players actions until it's your turn again. Event and attack driven (positive versus negative events). Strategic feel, but also much randomness.
Played the digital version. Not quite what I expect from a civ game. In parts too fiddly, in parts too abstract for my taste.
If only this game looked slightly better/was a tad less fiddly, it could easily be a 9. 
I have an absolute love-hate relationship with this game. While a 6/10 rating might usually imply some degree of mediocrity, that couldn't be further from the truth. Through the Ages vacillates between being a finely-tuned engine-builder with delightful player choices and a fickle, capricious, take-that game with baffling design choices. It's the Blood Bowl of euro games.  On the surface, Through the Ages feels like many other heavy euros. Produce grain to get workers, use workers to make stones, use stones to build better production buildings, and repeat. It's more complicated that that of course; there is also science to build new technologies, production of victory points, an action point allowance system, and penalties for too little food, too much stone, or unhappiness in your population.   Virtually all of these options are only available to you by taking the correct cards from the face-up display on your turn. So maybe you don't even get the option to build better production buildings because others take the cards first, but you get something else instead that they did not. Being flexible and adapting your overall strategy to the tactical considerations given to you by the cards is paramount.  One of the many resources you will manage is your military strength. If you are the lowest in military strength, you will get picked on, and picked on a lot. In fact, many of the events that come up also punish players who are lagging behind in military, while rewarding those who are furthest ahead. A successful attack by a stronger player will generally see them stealing a moderate amount of resources from a weaker one. For a while, you can afford a couple of these losses. But later in the game, the rewards for wars start to be drastic, based on the strength differences between the players, rather than a fixed amount of stolen goods. Of all the things you need to do in this game (and you do need to do them all), military is the most catastrophic if ignored.  This has the peculiar effect of making generation of points nearly irrelevant for the first 90% of the game. If you are strong enough, you can just steal your points from someone else later. And if you've kept pace in military enough not to get picked on, the late-game technologies and end-game bonuses will generate far more points than anything you've done up until then. This is certainly a different feel than most heavy euros, but I'm not entirely convinced it's better. Certainly if you do not understand this dynamic going into the game, you will be in  a world of hurt.  Speaking of which, through mistakes, attacks, bad card draws, or whatever, it is surprisingly common (maybe about 20% of games) for one player to need to concede. While the game does not actually eliminate players, refusing to concede when you are hopelessly behind essentially just makes you a punching bag for the next player who draws an attack card. Refusing to concede from this position is essentially kingmaking. The fact that this can occur, does occur with relative frequency, and does so in a 4-hour game is undoubtedly going to leave a bad taste for many potential players.  Through the Ages is the kind of game you can talk about long after the game is over. It's the kind of game you can write or read strategy articles about openings for. But it's also the kind of game that's ill-suited to actually be played, except by a certain breed of gamer with lots of time to spare and no fear of sitting out the last hour. For these reasons, playing asynchronously on the app is probably a better game experience, which is where all but one of my plays have been. I can't see this game ever dropping below a 6, and it could even creep up a point or two in my enjoyment, in spite of some very annoying design decisions. But does a game that takes a full work-week of play sessions to show its greatness really warrant that level of investment? To each his own, I suppose.
A solid upgrade to the original that keeps the interesting parts and subtly  changes many things. Still a very long game, but that's fine, it just means it might not see the table as often.
Decently put together but incentivizes picking on the weakest rather than the strongest, and doesn't even give the mercy of elimination. You're in it for two more hours, sorry. Some cards are just bad design as well. Gain 6 points for everyone who's beating you? Wha?
Elsőre azt hittük ez a jéghegy csúcsa, nagyon megszerettük. A problémák akkor kezdődtek, mikor kiderültek, hogy vannak Op lapok, melyek megszerzése hatalmas előnyökkel járnak. Két főnél ez kegyetlen élményromboló, több fővel a királycsinálás miatt nem is próbálkoztunk.  
Nice mechanism and a little luck is helpful but not absolutely needed
My gaming preference is for longer, meatier games such as TI3, TI4, Mega-Civ, etc.  Therefore I was expecting to really like this game, especially after seeing the mechanics play out and how one could "upgrade" infrastructure, etc.  As I was expecting a Civ development game, I was disappointed to find the game to be primarily a military thievery exercise which leaves the player(s) in last place with little chance of making it out of last place.  This issue is probably not as bad with 3 players as it is with 4 (hence the "Best with: 3" community recommendation).  This is a game which requires a HIGH level of concentration, and where the sequence of play is critical and must be followed to the letter, by all players.  Interrupting a player during his/her turn is not only rude, but a means to throw off any planning as it is all too easy to make a mistake and screw yourself as it is.  Making a mistake in this game is as bad if not worse than doing so in STEAM.  You can literally take yourself out and become a mere spectator for 3-4 hours.  Unfortunately, the game heavily suffers from the "Bash the player in last place syndrome", especially when two players hit the last player on the same turn.  Read many comments stating this is the player's own fault for not buying and/or developing military units.  These gamers were obviously not playing the same game, as there is a high level of luck in card distribution.  In order to pick up a military card,  said card must be available to be picked up during YOUR turn.  Anyone who has played this game a few times will realize this and grab military cards ASAP.  This can, as I have seen several times, leave one player with no chance whatsoever to get a military card, therefore not being able to develop military points  sufficiently to defend him/herself.  One can mitigate this to a certain extent, by retaining "defensive" military cards (any other avenue available?), but a double attack on one turn wipes this possible defense completely.  Actually, the game handsomely rewards players for bashing the player in last place as it grants you easy resources, tech points, VPs or other critical cubes for nothing more than 1-3 military action points (which you would normally use to draw cards).  If a player in last place is already struggling, stealing 5 tech points might not appear as a lot, but when you are generating 2 tech points per turn, the 10 point gap this causes is actually quite large...   Cost for the attacker = 1 military action  Cost for the defender...  many turns, not counting several Civil actions required to attempt to get the necessary military card, tech points and population in order to attempt to catch up.  This alone tells me military is THE way to go, if you are lucky enough to be able to get military cards on your turn.  If you get to this point, you are already out of the running and have become a mere spectator.  If you do not mind this for 3+ hours, then give this game an 8+ rating.  To make the military strategy crystal clear, not to say even stronger, players cannot target you directly if you are ahead of them in military points, unless they play a war card.  Then again, the game allows the defender one full turn to prepare for said war.  I have yet to see players in 2nd or  3rd place even try a war against the player in 1st place, let alone even try coordinating an attack on the player in 1st place!  To dislodge this military advantage you can either (a) build more military units or (b) hope the player wins a colony which will lower his military points below yours, so he/she then becomes vulnerable to your military (i.e. hope the player screws him/herself).  In conclusion, for a 4+ hour game, the level of required (card) luck is WAY too high.  Our last game was in fact decided by the end of Age I, about 120-150 minutes in, as it is too easy for players ahead militarily to grab what they need from the player(s) in last place, making the last players life more miserable then it already is.  You are limited by the cards available during YOUR turn.   There are only so many turns in a game, so if you spend most of your turn (ie. 3 actions) getting this one card you really need, at the expense of the rest of your needed development, you are most likely not doing yourself a favor.  If you take a chance that this card will be available on your next turn, you will most probably be disappointed, especially if it's a military card.  Although you appear to be able to plan ahead, you can only do so with the cards you have in hand or on your player board, as newly added cards will most probably not be available on your next turn.  If you are last in militarily points, expect some resources or tech points to vanish from your board (i.e. don't plan too much).  ========================  As you all know, players you play any game with have a high impact on the overall enjoyment of said game.  This is especially important in this game, which actually has a rule allowing for back tracking.  One issue in my last game was AP, with a player having what I have dubbed the "back tracking" ability, which somehow allows him to gain a extra action every turn, or replace a tech card on the table with one from his hand...  Nope, will never game with that person again, as the game does require a certain level of trust if you allow back tracking to occur.  Only played 4 games to date, mostly with different players, and have seen the above "issues" occur every time, to varying degree (i.e. run away military leader and a spectator player).  If one is able to gain military cards, it becomes an interesting game and rating could be raised to a 7 or 8.  But if you still do not have a new military card by the end of Age I, little enjoyment will be had unless you enjoy a spectator role with King Maker abilities, as your only real option is to concentrate on tech and the military, and harass one player until the end of the game, also reducing his/her enjoyment.  Point spread at the end of the game is an indication of game balance issues and high randomness.  Experience is obviously another factor.  So although VPs may be tight for 1st, 2nd and sometimes 3rd place, when you have more than doubled the VP of the player in last place, ask yourself if that player had any real enjoyment in knowing he/she had no chance whatsoever in the last 4-5 hours, and was just playing King Maker?  It is too bad one cannot "copy" military units like one can military tactic cards, giving the developer a 1-2 turn exclusive use, as it would mitigate a lot of the issues indicated above.  Rating the game a 5, which I believe is more than fair given the play time, randomness, bash the player in last place and runaway leader(s) issues.  That is really too bad as the mechanics are great, the components (IELLO version) were very nice, but I would rather not impose a "spectator" role to anyone, especially not in a 3+ hour game.
The original Through the Ages was easily a 9.5. This new version is without a doubt a 10+. This game is a masterpiece! I don't care if it takes 2 hours or 4 hours to play I am down with this game anytime. If you like civilization games this is the one every gamer should have!
Is it a civ builder? I don't know for sure but I do know that I love it. That said it should really only be played digitally. The game is too fiddly with too much upkeep between turns, IRL play takes far too long.
With online Never play offline too much rules restriction
It does seem to be superior to the original.  (1 play)
Great "All of Famer". Appart from Mare Nostrum in the early 2000's, i never found the perfect Civ game. TTA is too long, the decision space on the river of cards is limited and i dont want to commit again with this one. I still own it for his pedigrée.
I own the Steam and iPhone versions. Great time killer.
Really Like this game. What i like the most is how in a 2 players game it could quickly escalate to a cold war .
Through the Ages is a hard game to evaluate.   On the one hand, it is an ingenious game.  The mechanics fit together well and players get the sense of progression through time.   Turning Sid Meier's video game Civilization into a sophisticated and engaging table top game is a real feat.   On the other hand, the game takes a long time and is fairly tedious.  In same ways, Through the Ages strikes me as a cardboard version of a video game.  Yes, it is brilliant and fun to play briefly, but wouldn't you rather play the real thing without the clunkiness?    What I liked:  * The separation of civil and military actions gives a nice duel layer to the game.   * The civil actions mechanic itself creates crucial trade-offs both in the short and long term that forces players to make hard choices.  * Foregoing military actions allows players to pursuing a more diplomatic/economic course, but they still have to maintain their military to ward off aggression from other players.  * The flow of time with technologies, events, leaders, and buildings passing through the cascading pseudo-auction is a nice mechanic.  * The cost of recruiting and maintaining workers is handled elegantly.  * Political events add a very nice wrinkle to the game (and they aren't random -- they are placed purposefully by players).  * Corruption to deter stockpiling is (again) handled simply and elegantly.  * The number of civil and military actions are attached to government types, which allows for different strategies.  * Going to war allows the target of the war to maximize their military strength during their turn, which forces military potential to be factored in.  * Advances in technology in different lanes is elegantly and clearly laid out.  As I said, there is a LOT to like and admire about this game!  What I didn't like:  * Time.  Holy cow this game takes a long time.  Budget 1 hour per player + another hour.  * A game with so many overlaid mechanisms requires careful accounting and that bean (cube?) counting is tedious.  * Once you dig yourself into a hole, the game is very unforgiving and it is difficult to recover.  The recovery problem manifests itself in every game where randomness does not play a huge role, but when a game will take several hours, this is a larger drawback.  * I don't see why you wouldn't simply attack the weakest player militarily every time.  There is a disincentive to attack the strongest player on the board (your geopolitical rival) and a strong incentive to beat up on the lowest player.   * Other than a few military skirmishes and buying cards as they drift down the timeline, there isn't much strategic interaction between players.  You are essentially playing simultaneous solitaire games with the other players providing an added element of randomness.  [On the plus side: people can leave the table to perform chores when it is not their turn.]  Bottom-line: I admire this game; it is engaging and fun. But I can't imagine too many evenings when I want to sit down with my family (or friends) to devote 4 hours to this game.
It's a fine and interesting game. Some neat card play, but not really "fun." Lots of punishing mechanisms and a runaway leader problem.
Brilliant design of a civ game. Excellent card play and mechanics moving age to age. Resources are tight, game is uber long and if you fall behind there is seemingly zero way to recover. Experienced players will crush
For every frustration I had with this game; strange graphic choices, repetitive cube placements, unclear objectives, I found things I love about it; many paths to victory, unpredictable outcomes, equal opportunity for reactive and proactive strategy. Definitely not the same modern mechanics we have become spoiled by with engine building titles (Wingspan, etc), but definitely has a place as a classic in the genre.
This edition resolved a lot of the issues I have with the original.  It is much better playtested for balance and there doesn't seem to be the opportunity for effective elimination anymore.  But it's still too long for me so I won't ever suggest it.  I will probably play again though.
Gifted to a friend that likes board games and LOVES Civ the computer game! He's stoked!
great game but am i the only one who prefers the digital version?
Probably one of the best games I have ever played, you can lose this game and feel that you won in your own sense.  Multiple times when you are done with a session (our have ranged from 4-6 hours) is that you want to setup a new one and try another strategy.  Incredible.
Civilization building as a theme isn't probably my favorite (I've never been much into Sid Meier's Civilization or other games similar to that) but because of Through the Ages and its great reviews I've decided to give it and some other similar games a chance to impress me. I haven't played this yet, but I will, probably soon. 
This is very similar to original Through the Ages, but with updates components. There are small changes here and there with largest changes to combat. Also a small simplification of production phase. Overall it is still excellent game and with better components it is an improvement. Only downside is that it now takes more space and the box is bigger as well.
Need to play this again, and with 3 players instead of 4 due to game length issues.  Seems like a great game with complex decisionmaking, interesting trees of dependencies, and balancing.  Military plays a role, but is hardly the whole game.
Some changes to the predecessor. I am not shure if they make the game better. Anyhow a great civilization game. /*#M1*//*stay*/
En la página 2 del código de leyes pone que el indicador de felicidad debe ir en la casilla 1.  El indicador de felicidad debe empezar en la casilla 0. En el tablero de ejemplo de la misma página está correcto. En la carta de la Era A "Progreso de la civilización" falta: -"De inmediato cada civilización puede: aumentar su población o bien; construir una granja, una mina o un edificio urbano o desarrollar una tecnología. Al hacerlo el coste se reduce en 1 de comida/piedra/bombilla." En la carta falta indicar que sirve para desarrollar una tecnología.  Tengo el juego recién comprado, y certifico que las 2 erratas mencionadas en este foro vienen corregidas. El indicador de felicidad dice que se coloca en 0 en la página 2 y la carta con problemas dice "o bien;desarrollar una tecnología".  Una mini errata que acabo de encontrar en el Manual de Primera Partida es en la página 12, que bajo "tecnologías de construcción" dice: "el ajuste dependerá de la época a la que pertenezca la carta de tecnología de construcción",  debiendo decir: "el ajuste dependerá de la época a la que pertenezca la carta de edificio urbano".
One of the greatest games of all time. Love how mechanics mixed together and how them supports the theme.  It's long and feedly but as game for 1 or 2 plays per year Through the Ages is the best. 
As a family of 6 (4 kids, the wife and myself) we rarely can devote board game space to something that will have to sit for days (work and school obligations), BUT about twice a year we pull this out and go all in.  We are definitely on the upper end of the 240 minute playing time, and that could be due to the fact that we play about 90 mins at a stretch.  Love the design and mechanics.  When we finish a game (win or lose) we really feel like we have accomplished a lot.
Amazing update to an already great game which streamlined it considerably.  Made even better and more seamless by the Steam/tablet app, which is the best-executed port of a boardgame I have played.
+Excellent civ building feel. +Streamlined end-of-turn compared to previous edition.  Nicer material too. -The base game can sometimes degenerate into an arm-race.  (Military won't make you win, but falling behind can certainly make you lose)
9/10 because of the great app. I'd imagine component admin would bring this down if I played the tabletop version.
Initial rate, after first play. I see real potential in this game.
Remek hangulatú, igazi hondolkodtató stratégia. Talán ez a társas adja vissza legjobban a PC-s Civilization hangulatot megelőzve ezzel a hivatalos adaptációt. Sajnos kissé hosszú még két játékossal is kb. 4 óra, de megéri a rá áldozott időt.
Bought the app to see what the fuzz was about, haven´t gotten into it yet.
This game taught me something about Vlaada: Vlaada is the anti-Knizia; lots of mechanics, dense complicated rules with swingy outcomes. Vlaada focuses on the theme first then builds the rules to support them theme. As a result, you get games that feel thematic and varied but have loads of exceptions and rules, and in some ways Through the Ages feels like the perfect example of one of these games. It is a game that you learn and feel like "okay, and that's it right?" and then there are three more sub-systems to learn about. I joke that Through the Ages makes Terra Mystica look elegant  It doesn't quite remind me of games like Vinhos where you have games within games and need to go over each one before you can even really understand what your doing. It avoids this pitfall by having more direct phases, but it's still a pain to go through and will take many plays before you feel like you're doing everything right  At the end of the day Through the Ages is a cube durdling engine-building game with minimal interaction and is very mechanical. You will spend most of your time trying to figure out how to fit the card line into your current situation and how to convert X cubes into Y cubes to play Z cards to get points. There's a little interaction with military cards (and you do need to pay attention to military or get screwed) and events but the majority of the game is staring at your board pushing cubes around.  As I get older and wiser I tend to not like these types of games, and after a few hours with the rulebook running through a sample game I was pretty bummed out that the game was so overwrought. Thankfully I was able to play the app afterwards though and really get my head around it. It doesn't change my opinion that TtA simply has too much crap, but it did help me see the appeal of the game which is the variety in the cards.  The cards are what make TtA an interesting game, and in those cards is a number of strategies and timings. It reminds me a lot of what I enjoy about Innovation - discovering the various interlocking strategies and learning to perfect each. I agree that this is a very cool part of the game  However it doesn't make the game less fiddly, and if you're anal like I am then checking up every little exception drags the game out severely. I feel TtA needs one more revision - something to speed it up to get it under (or even to) 2 hours consistently. Some sort of simultaneous play or streamlining of the durdle board would be very nice  How do I feel at the end of the day? I'm undecided right now but will keep it and try to get it to the table a few times before passing judgement. I do like the app and think it plays very well there for some engine building fun. I'm just not sure this is a game I want to break out very often, and if that's the case then why have it at all?  EDIT: The game can be a bit durdly but overall I really like Through the Ages. I sold my physical copy as it was too cumbersome to teach/play, but the app version is A++. The game has loads of replayability and is very satisfying. The expansion is also excellent.  I love this game, but it's simply better digitally
Difficult but compelling civ-game. I love the purchase row and point system. You can't develop everything and need a bit of focus. Why not higher? It is a long game, there is a definite learning curve, and you need an equally skilled player. Aggression cards often don't work. 
Magnific game. Each time that I play this game, I want to play more and more.
I played the digital version of it a lot using my iPad, just can't stop playing it.
Распаковка. Сквозь века. Новая история цивилизации http://myhobbyhour.blogspot.ru/2018/04/blog-post.html  Мнение. Сквозь века. Новая история цивилизации http://myhobbyhour.blogspot.ru/2018/04/blog-post_24.html  Мнение "от Матвея". Сквозь века. Новая история цивилизации http://myhobbyhour.blogspot.ru/2018/04/blog-post_30.html  Отчет №7 от 28-29 апреля 2018. Сквозь века. Новая история цивилизации http://myhobbyhour.blogspot.ru/2018/05/7-28-29-2018.html
13  Played in 2022  SC:  681  (236, 198, 182, 65 resigned)
不只是美術升級，卡片的各種數值應該也調過了，難怪玩起來更為順暢？整體的學習曲線雖然降低了，但是遊戲難度依舊很高，耐玩度、變化性還是一等一，不愧是最優秀的文明遊戲之一~
The game is wonderful, but it takes forever to play. Almost every game (on table, not digital) has ended early and players scooped.  If you fall behind, you feel behind all game (sadly). But, I really like the mechanics and can be a blast once you know some semblance of strategy.
[2-4 players, best with 3; 4-6 hours]  Action Point Allowance System Auction/Bidding Card Drafting Hand Management  >> What a game! You won't miss the 'dudes on a map', you'll be engaged every turn. Every choice you make is also a loss, so you must think carefully with each action cube. Incredibly rewarding gaming experience!
Digital, This game is very close to being the best game ever made specially in the digital format that works so well. My only complaint is the weakest player gets bashed a lot and Strength is the most important aspect of the game due to event cards and attacks.  To fix this I came up with a simple variant: 1. Attacking the weakest opponent now costs 1 more military action. 2. Attacking the strongest opponent now costs 1 less military action. 3. If there is a tie in your opponent's strength attack now costs the same number as shown on the card.  Edit: dropped to a 7, After maybe 100 games I am done with this game there are lots of flaws that keep this game from being a classic. to mention a few: 1. Bashing the last player constantly. 2. Random Military card draw. 3. King making problem. 4. Any mistake is usually game losing. 5. End game is not satisfying.  The core mechanics of the game are brilliant but sadly there are too many flaws.
The new version improves upon the original, though Nations is my game of preference. 
처음 이 게임을 하고는 반해서 주구장창 돌렸던 기억이 난다. 지금은 어플로 잘 구현되어 있지만 당시엔 못생기게 구현된 웹에서 재밌다고 신나게 플레이 했었다. 어플이 너무 잘 나와서 오프로 돌리는게 역체감이 너무 심한게 단점. 카드만으로 이렇게 멋진 문명 게임을 구현했다는 점에서 지금도 정말 놀라운 게임이다. 
Bought brand new from Arty Harder for $40 on 11-5-2022.
Ritka esetekben, de néha a digitális másolat jobb, mint a fizikai verzió. Egy remek civilizáció építős játék rengeteg adminisztrációval... és elég hosszú :D
It's an above average game. With 3 and 4 players (shudder), it takes rather long and with 2 players, I would vastly prefer to play other games in my collection. I might play with with the app which greatly reduces the play time.
Great game, prefer to play on the digital app nowadays due to less setup.   bad card sizes - cannot find sleeves
A very satisfying engine/civilization builder. Lots of cubes & cards. It's unfortunately very long (best part of a day) and outstays it's welcome in my opinion. Digital version much faster but slightly less enjoyable/satisfying IMO.
This game is amazing. There is a lot book keeping though so be wary of that. I personally do not mind book keeping so that's not a big deal for me. The games do take 2+ hours however I felt like the game ended way too early. That's a sign it's a good game in my opinion.
ШЕДЕЕЕЕВР По моему скромному мнению, лучшая игра из созданных
2 - 4 players (best 3), 120 min, Age: 14+  Through the Ages is a civilization building game. Each player attempts to build the best civilization through careful resource management, discovering new technologies, electing the right leaders, building wonders and maintaining a strong military. Weakness in any area can be exploited by your opponents. The game takes place throughout the ages beginning in the age of antiquity and ending in the modern age.
Digital - Boardgamearena Digital - Steam Digital - GOG Digital - iOS
Really feels like building a civilisation. My favourite euro!
very good game when you're lucky enough to collect your favourite cards :)
Can't deny that this is a wonderful game and it is definitely deserving of the praise it gets, but, it is much too long for me and very much a game where if you don't have 20+ games under your belt you will find that you stand no chance at winning and might even find yourself at the receiving end of a lot of pain and war.
Heavy, abstract and long, extremely niche and only worth playing with 3 players max, if at all. If you read the 10/10 reviews they all explain why it isn't very good, which should be a warning in itself!
As a 2 player game, it's a 7 or an 8. As a multi-player game I give it a 9 or 10.  I've played so many times on BGA. So many.
This rating is for the boardgame version. I could see that its much better as digital version with the awfull upkeep and fiidly bits all done automaticly. Ich would even like to try a digital version - but i won´t ever play the Board Game version ever again. To long, to fidly, half the game is just upkeep. Took over 5h with 3 players. 120 minutes my a**
Want to make a civilization? This is THE game. Absolutely amazing. Simple, elegant, with tons of replay value. An experienced player will destroy a newcomer.I would love to see a solo variant. I would never play it with 4.
Not sure if better, but certainly not worse than the original version. Will have to play more to say for sure.  Comment from original version still applies: "Online rating: 9.8, in person rating: 8. Just too long and fiddly to play in person that often."
I'm not sure this is sufficiently different from the original to be worth a separate game entry, ok art is more attractive and the cubes don't roll away. At least the temptation to constantly attack the weakest player has been toned down. However, the game is still far too long for one that requires so much micromanagement and it isn't even remotely fair or balanced. In the game that I played, one player became a runaway leader simply by getting Taj Mahal built early, by the time the rest of us were generating that many VPs it was far too late. Not a game I'll be seeking out again.
It is ... big and heavy and lenghty. A very broad game, might be deep but too many things to learn before you get to understand its depth.
The problem with this game is that the playtime is absolutely prohibitive. It's a cool, fun, thematic design, but when a three-player game takes eight hours -- even when the other players are slow decision-makers -- it's virtually never going to happen.
play on app all the times. Great engine building, civilization game
The big boss of Civ games. Intimidating for sure, but extremely rewarding and actually quite fluid after a couple of plays. It is very long but it is a micromanager's paradise. 
An improved version of what was already my favorite board game ever.
Owned expansion: New Wonders and Leaders.  Marvelous game. The new edition components and artwork are good. We prefer the less militaristic version of the game, mainly because there seem to be less superfluous rules, but also because we prefer games where we build and prosper than where we conquer and destroy.
A bit boring. They streamlined it sure, but there is still a lot of upkeep. Also the game does feel like just another group solitaire thing except when players keep attacking the weak guy.  The strategy is pretty simple once you get the hand of it. At that point every game feels very similar and the game becomes more of a "just go through the motions" game.
I have played 1636 games on mobile. I shouldn't have bought the app.  Saltiness Level - 7/10 Fun Factor - 8/10 Meaningful Choices - 9/10 Overall Feeling - 9/10
Main critic for previous edition was the visual aspect. Now it's more appealing. 
I've played only iOS version, but even it too hard for me.
Awesome game, but be prepared for a long time gaming.
Quite like playing this on the app, although it does illustrate that it's mostly a tactical game about micromanagement, which is pretty much the opposite of what I want from a civ game. I can't imagine playing the bookkeep-a-thon which is the physical game again (I played the first edition).
Una obra de ingeniería lúdica. Combina muchas mecánicas sin que el juego chirríe ya que hay una buena cantidad de conceptos en él bien integrados: felicidad, corrupción, revoluciones, colonización, conflictos militares, cultura, líderes destacados... Largo. Épico. Debería venir con dos tardes libres incluídas en la caja. Buena mecánica la de acciones civiles/militares (varían en función del tipo de gobierno), la construcción de maravillas (consumen muchos recursos) y la de los pactos entre civilizaciones (para que haya interacción entre ellos). Cada turno es un ejercicio de control y ajuste económico. Contras: muy largo, acojona al más pintado empollarse todas las reglas. No tiene mapa. No tiene árbol de tecnologías. Pierde mucho sólo con 2 jugadores, aunque gana en agilidad y acorta muchísimo su duración.  [ENG]  A real game-engeneering work. It combines a lot of different  mechanisms without a crunch during the game: happiness, corruption, revolutions, colonization, military conflicts, culture, leaders. Long and epic. It should have two free afternoons inside te box. Favourite mechanisms: civil/military actions (they are different based on the current goverment), the wonders (they need a lot of resources) and the pacts between two civilizations (they give the game much interaction). Every turn is a tough control exercise and economic adjust. CONS: Long. Too long. And the rules are long too!! There´s no map, no technologies´ tree. It´s no good just for two players, but is shorter and more agile than the 3-4 players´ 
TTA has a plethora of choices, but none of them are fun.  You spend 4-6 hours slowly upgrading your buildings into better version of themselves.  I have very little desire to play this game given the amount of times it requires and how repetitive the game play is.
Love this game but difficult to get to the table.  
As good as a Civilization building game can be without a map element. I love the fact that one of the leaders in the game is Sid Meier himself. It's such a classy tribute by Vlaada Chvátil.  + New Leaders and Wonders
When I see this game at bgg's number 3 game of all time I really question my sanity and on the tastes of the people who rate games here. I'm not saying their tastes are bad but they skew towards a direction and a place not venture by many.  TtA: ANSoC is by far one of the most unfun, tedious games I have ever played and I say that as someone who enjoys heavy euros. The issue is that this game is needlessly repetitive, highly finicky with lots of moving parts and lasts over 3 hours with 3 players. The amount of downtime per player is astronomical as you get past Age I and the turns aren't even interesting if it isn't your turn. 90% of what your opponents do just don't keep me interested.  An engine building cutthroat game shouldn't be decided early in the first half of the game with 2 hours left, nor should it take so long without giving anything back.   If you enjoy doing work and taxes and filling out information on forms this game is right for you.  If as a kid you enjoyed doing homework only to have it be deleted and need to start over again. If that pleases you by all means by this game.
Inherited this game - I've played it about three times and only finished it once -Its epic...and fiddly
Can't complain about it (it [i]is[/i] Through the Ages after all) but let's just say I'll continue to log my plays of this under the original TTA entry.  Apart from the military changes, most of the new rules seem to be for the benefit of playing at the table and I am so far exclusively an online player.
Suggest: Enthusiastic  Conclusion: yes, comments on the web are right, it beats old version in every aspect, but the game length and the downtime remain.   The most important improvement is the brutal nature has been moderated(luck on tactic cards minimized, no-sacrifice allowed). Especially in 3-4p game, the changes make this game more [thing=126042][/thing]-like  The second, probably as much important as the 1st one, is that the function and numeric values of cards are modified: all the cards that apparently weak in old version are strengthened. 4-5 2p plays so far, I suspect some culture-point based strategies (Michelangelo, Shakespeare) are overpowered, but I'm not sure and that's really minor.  Third, the flow is improved by the new production rule and the re-make on yellow cards makes it more easy and less luck-based on developing. Fourth, the components and the artwork are much more better.
Through the Ages is a tableau-based engine-building game. 31.0% of voters didn't recommend this game for 4p when I checked. Jon Cox said the playing time for his group was up to 90 minutes per player (youtu.be/IwXZon7p66c?t=1649). Heavy Cardboard's 3p playthrough (/video/158471) is 255 minutes long.
[url=http://misutmeeple.com/2016/10/resena-through-the-ages-una-nueva-historia-de-la-civilizacion/]Reseña de Through the Ages: Una Nueva Historia de la Civilización[/url]
Own iOS. Would love to try the physical version, though I suspect it's probably too fiddly and long for my tastes.
Más equilibrado y parejo el aspecto militar que su antecesor.
While I really enjoy this game I find that it takes far too long for casual play. The short version just falls flat compared to the full game but the full game takes far too long. Normally I am fine with long games but the real killer for this game is how it handles down time. It takes so long for your turn and has so little player interaction during the action phase that it becomes a multiplayer solitaire where you can just as well leave the table until it is your turn. Great game but dragged down by its length and the snoozefest that is downtime.
A very good game but I regret the history ends so soon without seeing too great modern armies, developed cultural/scientist infrastructure and some sc-fi robot mechs. The focus is on early times. Religion not too important in the 3rd era but why not? Just add three more cards - a religion-based cultural scoring event, a John Paul II leader maybe a building/wonder(Caritas?).  And do a lot of IV era future stuff as an expansion. Until then: 8/10.
The best civ-building card game to me.  How the cards fall changes every game, and the game creates a tense environment of wanting to do everything and having enough food and resources to do very little.  This new version is a bit better than the old version!
Typical Vlaada game for me, I appreciate his genius but I don't like any of his games.  Tried to learn this and then teach it to my wife, wow what a terrible experience.  
Through the Ages is a difficult one to rate for me personally. The design is amazing, the game looks nice, doesn't outstay its welcome with its 3 till 4 hour long gameplay and has supreme strategic depth. But it's not tailor made for me, obviously, I'm afraid. I guess the theme surprisingly doesn't get me that excited and conjointly the game can feel a litle bit slow at certain moments. Still a solid 7 with nothing but respect for it! This truly is the number one civ building board game experience.
fiddly and boring - I'd rather play Nations every time
There is not much I can add to what has already been said.  This game is simply the best, most elegant game ever created. Period. I will never turn down an offer to play this game.
Set up time and complexity, as well as being available on the app, means I called to this game
Nice game, but too much of a commitment for me, and too many take-that elements. Quite like the digital version though, but even that takes quite a while.
Reminds me so much of Civ on the PC. Love all the card options and civ building mechanics here
Tried the reimplemented version (great version on boardgamearena.com) to see if some of my issues with the original had been addressed.  And the answer appears to be "no."  Military appears to be disproportionately important, and if you get left behind in the arms race - sorry, the right cards were not there when it was your turn - you just beaten mercilessly (even if you are in last place) because the game rewards it.  I can deal with beat on the leader mechanics . . . but mechanics that encourage beating on the guy in last just sucks.  There is even an option to concede mid-game and let everyone else finish (because the game knows that things do come off the rails).  Completely not fun.  I'm sure players who have invested significantly more time than me will readily point out how to work around this . . . but I have not had enough fun per time invested to make it worth while for me to find out.
One of the best game, about civilization building with hand management and euroish style.  It has offers so much choices for play, so much strategies and things to done. Events are surprisingly beautiful, agressions are harmful but not a destroying one, them gameplay accomplish to being a civ-like game and taking it to the map. The choice of not putting a some map on it, actually becomes weird for the first time but when you discover the aspects of the game than you understand why there is no need a map.  After several plays with app and tabletop: Magnificent. Truely brilliant game. It offers very unique strategies in every game with such a beautiful design. It gets better with playing.  Gameplay Mechanics: 10 Replayability: 10 Theme: 10 Design: 10 Time: 10  10
ciężki tytuł, bardzo długi. Trudny do nauczenia, trudny do grania dobrze. Na pewno nie na początek. Bardzo satysfakcjonujący. Bardzo dobry dla fanów gry komputerowej, ale nie tylko.
Normally I would not rate this game as I only played the app-Version of it. However I think it is an amazing design. This is THE civ-game and THIS is what a civ-game just should feel like. I love balancing the different aspects of a civilization while also having a strategy that gets the best out of one or two of them.   That said I have no desire to play this as a boardgame-version due to its length and presumably its fiddlyness. The app will see many more plays with strangfriends  as well as strangers. If you think you dont want to invest the money or time for this brilliant game I absolutely recommend the app.
historic combining theatrical unlocking stealing bidding educating constructing? deductive?; Nations? favoured; favoured over Innovation, Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization
Had this game for a while but never played it due to the expected complexity and not wanting to learn all the rules, And although the game is pretty complex with lot going on, Andre taught me this game in less than 1 hour and we were able to play most of a game. A lot going on here. Need to gain lightbulbs for buildings and tech upgrades. Need resources to put your population to work or get soldiers. Need food to keep prevent your people from starving. Need civil actions for your activities and to buy cards, Need military actions to make military or play military cards. Need to prevent opponent from taking good cards, need to win auctions for colonies. And in the end the number of VP decides the game so should also keep that in mind. Finding the balance is the difficult part and after 3/4 of the game I don't pretend to know how to play the game.  But so many options results in many choices you can make and making every game quite unique.  As indicated the game is not that complex as I had thought although without an experienced player it may take some tutorials or time reading the manual to learn the rules. The game also takes about 4 hours although I can imagine this going down after having played the game a couple of time.   A truly enjoyable game!
Jogo de civilização para 2 a 4 jogadores. Bastante texto em inglês. Uma partida leva cerca de 1h30 por jogador, assumindo que todos já estejam familiarizados com o jogo.  [url=https://www.ludopedia.com.br/jogo/through-the-ages-a-new-story-of-civilization]Página do jogo na Ludopedia[/url]  [url=https://store.steampowered.com/app/758370/Through_the_Ages/]Versão digital no Steam[/url] [url=https://www.gog.com/en/game/through_the_ages]Versão digital no GOG[/url] [url=https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.czechgames.tta]Versão digital na Play Store[/url] [url=https://apps.apple.com/br/app/through-the-ages/id966245474]Versão digital na App Store[/url] [url=https://pt.boardgamearena.com/gamepanel?game=throughtheagesnewstory]Versão web Board Game Arena[/url] [url=http://boardgaming-online.com/]Versão web boardgaming-online.com[/url]
An epic game, really clever and intricate. It's just that the military can distort the outcome too quickly.
I've been completely engrossed with this game ever since I bought it.  I'd play every day if I could find the players.
I played it once on boardgame and many more on app. This is an app friendly game. Very well made though
Olivia took note of the game I most talked about buying for myself and purchased it for me, presumably adding it to Power Grid, sending me two games for an incredibly sweet birthday present.
Great game, it's complexity makes you want to play it again and again until you know everything possible about it. Great to play with friends although it can become quite competitive seeing as if your opponents take the cards you want you may have to change strategies to suit the cards and win by taking another path with your civilizatio.
Apart from this being a very hard game in person to play because of its fiddliness, BGA has a great implementation. Game design in flawless. Had a lot of fun playing this one!
I get many of you will rate it an 8, it's just not fun for me. Low fun/time ratio.
Absolutely love this game. Every aspect and mechanic was thoroughly planned out. This game is enhanced with how well the theme is integrated into it. It is amazing how how even when you lose the game (after playing for 3+ hours) you can feel accomplished with the civilization you have developed. Currently my #1 favorite game.
Best : 3 -> Très long (120mn) Acceptable : 2-4 Poids : 3,44 (Expert)
Boardgaming online makes this game perfect.  F2F is a little fiddley.  
Love how everything sincs together when you have things up and running.
Steam Been playing through the app, the challenges are cool. Improvements over the original are good
The game is very long, even doing the first game which skips the third age, but I'm always looking forward to what I can upgrade next. The rules for military strength and bidding on colonies are not the clearest.
Good abstraction of PC Civ games but takes too long and leaves me wanting to boot up Civ 5 instead.
Based on my one 3-player gameplay against someone who already knew the game, I can only say the game is pretty broken in the way that it attempts to portray the real world. The game mechanics and cards (age III military) have to be known beforehand if you want to have any chance against someone who knows the primary winning strategy.  The game tries to mask the fact that military strength and aggression is essentially the only game-winning element (until players are near equal in military strength) by making "culture points" the effective victory points, but it's beyond me what real-world equivalent it represents when in the age of internet and all a military might with 3x the military power can simply raid 1/3 of your way more advanced "culture" and somehow gain possession of it, with no adverse consequences, in a single attack move (war) that you are powerless to avoid, stop or mitigate. (Global pressure? Negotiations? Guerrilla warfare? Not in this universe.) Defender doesn't even have any kind of home field advantage when invaded, as this type of thing is realistically only possible with a full scale invasion and that should end the game for the losing player and be made clear from the start that it's a possibility, and should require no cards to trigger, only superior military to have the option. Also that should leave the attacker's back open for someone else to take advantage of, but nooo, not in this game. What a letdown.  So while some 95% of the play time you do something entirely unrelated, the game is still made to be all about war, and it shouldn't try to pretend otherwise to fool a first-time player, but it's a crying shame that the war aspect is the most simplified and lackluster element of the game, close to the abstraction level of 7 Wonders. I haven't played the first edition and I'm sure it's even worse, but for me this game just doesn't work one bit. Perhaps the word "civilization" from the title should be replaced with "war" for more honesty. My first and last experience was far from civilized, and 10 times out of 10 I prefer Eclipse for this type of game.
Deep, vast, interactive and punishing.  An amazing masterpiece which I really started appreciating only when I downloaded the APP, which takes it to a new level, allowing me to play solo and to experiment in a fraction of the time it would take for a live gaming session.  This game is just superb.
Did not enjoy my play. Revisited on app to give another chance, confirmed my dislike of card driven randomness. In larger games, impossible to control your own fate. You can completely miss opportunities to get advanced technologies in certain categories, making upgrading prohibitively expensive.
very good game, but requires too much effort from players to operate the game. That is why i prefer digital version
Only played online so far. Good improvements to a great game.(Jan 2019) Waiting on the shelf. (Jan 2017)
No le pongo un 10, porque es muy largo con las 3 eras..
Solid Civ builder, though I struggle with the switch to building culture...
Fantastic civilization game that spans a wide variety of strategies with intriguing gameplay.  Slow, long gameplay unless players know the general flow of the game.
This is another game that I love. But the setup is can take some time. Also, there is a lot of down time as well. This is also another game where the app has really took its spot. I will still keep the tabletop version because the physical version is something my group and I still like to play on occasion.
Probably a better game than the original but has all of the limitations of the original so I won't ever get into this as much as I did the original.
Steam version! Played on the Steam app and it is so much better than playing the old version on the table. It takes care of the accounting. The military rules seem better. Still clunky, but I'd actually want to play it.
Uno de los mejores juegos de estrategia -euros-, sin duda. Después de muchas partidas le subo la nota a 10 porque creo que es brillante.
Yeah, maybe for veterans there are significant changes here. For me - not. It still feels very much like the original... It's not necessarily bad (I rate the original at 8/10), but I felt much more of novelty with several mini-expansions than with this edition... I'm yet to experience 'the improvement': weakened military strategy, more balance in the military area and rebalanced cards.  EDIT: I cannot truly master it even after 35+ plays (incl. its predecessor's (i.e. original edition's) ones).  Almost every time I feel unfulfilled – a mix of my non-perfect (yet not explainable why) play and seeing many parts of the game remaining unused (rare wars, rarely/never taken leaders/wonders/buildings…).  Also, many routine plays and worn-out roads don't help the replayability.  So it went for sale becoming the only game I rate at 8 and which I don't feel compelled to have in my collection.  I can surely play it, but the game is so frustrating (for me) that it has lost the right to reside on my shelf :)  Sold.
Even though the weight of this game (and game time of 3-4 hours) put me off, I knew the payoff when playing would greatly outweigh it.  It took me several plays and rule dives to get there, to which I enjoy which it provided without being fiddly.  There are so many strategies and options to explore, I see this being a staple for years to come.  The constant pull to upgrade and better your society really delivers here and fills that need. The digital copy is great also to test out without having to invest with a group.
Rating after several plays against AI on computer. I could see this rating going up after I get to know it a little better. 2020
2 to 4 players Civilization - Economic Action Point Allowance System - Auction/Bidding - Card Drafting - Hand Management
This is my favorite Civ game at the moment. Excellent resource management.  Play time is very long, but time flies when you're having fun! Heavy
Pros:  Incredible that someone has managed to pack civilization-like gameplay in a board game without it feeling cheesy. Decisions feel meaningfull and are thematic.   Cons:  Having no map feels weird for a civ game. Also can drag on for too long even at two players.
Expanding complexity, strategic depth, wonderful theme, plenty of player interaction.  (I'll be honest: the rating is for the app, on which I've played more games than I can count. In-person the component fiddliness is still a bit of a drag.)
NEEDS SLEEVES (Swan PanAsia sleeve size: 52x74: Premium (SWN-535, 100/pack)
Even better than the original, which is still also a 10. I've played something like 60 games of this version, and anticipate that number going through the roof once the mobile version ships.
Great game if you like heavier strategy games. Definitely best played with three or four players (four if you have a good few hours to spare!), A two player game can too easily be one sided from about the fourth turn which is never fun.  My only negative comment is how fiddly all the cubes lying everywhere makes your homeboard but I understand there are plastic inserts for that. If I had a group who would regularly enjoy playing this I would definitely invest in them.
I do really love this game and the 2nd edition is definitely better than the original, which was fantastic in it's day.  As much as I'd love to rate this a 10, I just can't due to the "kick them when they're down" mentality that you are essential forced to do. Other than that, the game is perfect with 2 or 3 players.  
app version. feels like a very prototypical civ game, though that's probably because all of the mechanics are really tried and true stuff from civ-style games. doesn't feel super innovative, don't feel like i need to get the tabletop version at all. and the app version takes too long, can't imagine how horridly slow the tabletop version is. lots of upkeep and length for what is a very tactical and not so deep game?
This edition is definitely an improvement with the rules tweaks and balance improvements.  There is still too much downtime, so I won't play this 4 player or with slow players.
I liked the first edition.  This one has one play.  Due to the long play time it is hard to find a time slot to play with friends, and due to the heavy strategy my wife won't play it with me.  Still, when I do manage to get a game, usually at holidays, it's quite fun.  I do not like that the box size is bloated; the first edition box was so wonderfully tight to not waste shelf space.
Quite a bit going on in this game, certainly not streamlined by any stretch of the imagination. That said, given the length of the game there is a real feeling of "build YOUR civilization". There are certainly multiple paths to victory and in my 4 plays so far each one has gone down a different path. You won't be able to do everything you want, which makes it an enjoyable puzzle underneath of the heavy structure. Nice game. Only minor ding in this game is the military being rather strong at hosing an opponent given that it's somewhat luck based on who will have the cards fall right for them on a military advantage. Of note, player count changes the game quite a bit; cards in a 2 player game are a bit more visible whats coming, in 3p+ by the time it gets back to your turn 80% or more of the cards coming up are gone. 
My initial impressions of Through The Ages are positive. In my first few plays of only the "short" game, the game's engine-building is both satisfying and frustratingly tense. There is plenty of Euro-style "I wan't to do it all but I can't" gameplay as well as some more thematic direct interaction. Though it does run a bit long and can have some downtime issues (especially with higher player counts), I have enjoyed playing it so far and look forward to eventually tackling the full game.
By far the single best digital adaptation of any board game. I absolutely love this game, and the app makes it even more of a joy to play. I own this for iOS and Steam, while the cardboard version collects dust.  Like all of my other games, I only log plays vs humans (not AI). I'm at 241 plays as of this comment and I have no interest in slowing down. 
Very fun with 2 players. Its also fun with 3-4 but the waits for your turn can be upwards of 15 minutes with 4. It might just be more fun in the online implementation with those player counts.
Mentally exhausting but fulfilling game for those who like to "solve puzzles" - gathering pieces to create an engine to generate the largest amount of points within a time that could run out faster than you expect and with other external "hinder antes".  Long play time. 
The best board game I have ever played. Even better than the original TtA thanks to some balance tweaks and a few rule changes! Each game is a wonderful "through the ages" experience :)
Souhaite y jouer : Érick et Céline Possédé par : Clément R. 
Having a card row and fiddly player board for a civilization just doesn’t cut it. The scripted play doesn’t help either. 
I love this game.  I have fun playing it with my kids.
Rating is a composite of 10 for the computer implementation inc. the expansion 8 for the two player boardgame 7 for three player boardgame
We bought it as a hard euro and played it as an experience. That's the advantage for newbies that can go for classics withouth shadows of hype.
I'm rating this even though I've only played this version on the iOS app, but it's a very, very well done app and a very, very good game. This is the opposite of the games I'm most often attracted to these days - simple rule sets with complex interactions - but the complexity is so well done that it's totally worth it. (To be fair, I'd probably go for more complex games if I thought I could get them played. The app mitigates that problem.)   There is a ton going on in each game, and balancing all of the resources you need to manage is difficult. You can (sometimes) neglect one of them if you're strong in the others, but there area always opportunity costs for doing so. This leaves a lot of interesting decisions with consequences that (almost) always feel like the player was in control the entire time.
Fatta una sola partita, ma mi ha lasciato una buona impressione. Ci rigiocherei volentieri.
All the changes are good and appropriate, but the core is still the same.
Unlike any game I have played in a way. The mechanics are all different feeling. I think it will suffer from replay ability issues and new people just getting crushed. Needs a dedicated group and probably only get like 10 fun plays out of it before getting tired of it for me. It’s interesting and 10 plays would be good for any game though.  update: played it more and it got better (of course) Aug '19 - 8.0 Apr '20 - 8.5
Would be good, but it's too long. Also, I learned a lot more from Legendary Inventors. I think it's irresponsible that such a long game doesn't have even a sentence to educate about anything. Not a good use of time!
[COLOR=#363636][b]Expansion(s):[/COLOR][/b] + [thing=280833][/thing]
It might not get played as often as it used to, but it's still the embodiment of the "Civilization" computer games to me.
What drunken meth afflicted catnip infected dullard makes 4138 pieces for the board, nothing was wrong with the last one. Get, your poo, together. :P
2016-01-31  Initial Rating: 10.0 (January 2016)  Through the Ages is my number two game of all time so I was very keen to try the new edition of the game. As usual, Vlaada Chvátil (perhaps my favorite game designer) doesn’t disappoint. The game is outstanding. TtA was also one of two games I rated a 10 (the other is Dungeon Twister) and this edition of the game, definitively, improves it a lot so I would rate it an 11 if I could.  First of all, the art is great and very superior to the previous edition. This edition comes with two game manuals and they are also superior to the previous ones. They are far easier to understand and to find info quickly on them.  The game´s core remains the same, so if you already know how to play, the changes can be explained under 5 minutes, otherwise the game is a complex one to teach, with lots of rules (but they make sense). The playtime continues to be high, there are some changes that speed up player´s turns (now you have to discard military cards after you end your turn), but not by much. With 4 new players the game can take near to the 4 hour mark. Due to this, I have always preferred to play the game as a 2 player game or with 3 fast players, otherwise the downtime is too much for me.  About the changes:  • Besides the art, some cards were tweaked a bit for balance purpose. I approve.  • Corruption is easier to visualize because it is checked before production. This change also makes a lot of sense. • As I wrote before, now you discard excess military cards after you played your turn. This speed up the player’s turn because other player can begin playing while you are discarding, but it also helps you military wise because you have more options in your turn. On the same vein, drawing military cards is no longer part of production, so you can always draw all your military cards, even if your civilization is in an uprising. • Now, when you replace a leader you get a civil action back. This is a nice to have change. • The tactics now work very differently. This is one of the mayor changes to the rules (all previous changes were very tame). When a player plays a tactic card, it becomes available to all other players after one turn. This makes thematic sense (if you see how your opponents are fighting, you can learn from them) and helps a lot to downplay a bit the (previously all important) military aspect of the game. The player who plays the tactic card still have an advantage as he used the tactic first and other players need to pay more military actions to copy the tactic. • Another major change, players are no longer allowed to sacrifice units during aggressions. This is a great change to have because in the previous edition, the player who had the best military could decimate other players armies without weakening his position as the defender always had to sacrifice units to avoid damage. I love this.  • Another change I love (and one that makes sense and helps gameplay a lot), when you are defending you can use any military card you have for a +1 bonus. This also helps to prevent player´s military to become the most important facet of your civilization.  I like all the changes. TtA had some issues with the level power of the military. In the game manual, it said that TtA wasn’t a military game, but if you had poor military, most often than not, you will lose as stronger opponents would destroy all you built and steal your culture points. This is all fixed in this new edition. Here military is important, but not overpowering, so all of your civilization stats are equally important now. Having saying that, I liked how military worked in the previous edition as well, it was a source of tension and you were always aware of your opponents’ military rating, however all the games developed in this way.  The game continues to offer complex decisions, basically how to spend your civil and military actions, but you have many MANY options each turn (another reason I prefer it with 2 players). Each action has far reaching consequences.   Bottom line, the new edition of the game makes a great game better. If you disliked the previous edition, there isn’t anything new here that will make you like this edition (unless you hated how the military worked in the past, if so check it again :D). This edition is an improved and rebalanced edition of my number two game of all time so I love it. It is Chvátil´s masterpiece and the best Civilization game on the market (even though it doesn’t have a map).  Current Rating: 10.0  [b]Jgoyes´ Awards: [/b]  [imageid=3231398inline][imageid=3231413inline]
placeholder rating assuming that nothing much changed from the previous version...
With only one play of the new title I don't have any firm opinions but my initial impressions were positive.  I had hoped that the rebalancing would create some new strategic pathways, and that appears to be the case.
Really enjoy playing TtA. My only setback is the time commitment.
Certainly not for everyone, this is a cruel and unforgiving heavy strategy game for the hard core players. I love it wholeheartedly and play the mobile app every day. After 100+ games I still think this is the best strategy game ever made. Thank you Vlaada!
I'm rating this probably a bit low because i'm yet to fully grasp the imense power this game has! IT will be revisited soon!
Like to play it from time to time digitally, but strategically, it just hasn't clicked with me yet, at all. It's game where you bully the weakest. The weak get weaker and the strong get stronger. The gameplay is deterministic enough to make this a fair experience. but I'm not a fan of the heavy consequences. 
Wow what a Great game!  I wanted to give it 10, but the play time is just a bit too long. (and maybe I'll revisit my rating after playing some more) Also I have a love/hate relationship with the managing of resources/food/corruption.  It's a fun, tactile mechanic and I very much enjoy it, but I think it slows the game play down a bit and wonder if there could have been another mechanism to calculate faster.  This is a great game for replayability!  The card seeding mechanic allows players to write enough of the script to try and to position themselves to take advantage of events in the future.  I really look forward to being able to play this again - it made seven hours fly by!
This is a nice civilization-sort-of game, very strategic, and usually fun to play, but it's best when played through the smartphone app, since it takes much shorter to organize things, and the computer calculates everything for you in no time. It is fairly sad that if one player gets behind of something, he or she will end up losing the entire game, so not recommended with players who either played this game too much, or too less.
Non Solo: note that I own this app, and game can be played on BGA.
tentative rating: 9 introductory game only. looking forward to playing the whole game.
As soon as I saw the minimum play time of 120 minutes, this game dropped off my wish list.  I've seen it take over six hours at our club and that is more time than I want to devote to any game, no matter how good it is.  The older I get, the less patience I have... one of the reasons I no longer play wargames.
Sure...this revision balances most aspects, but the military card draw is still too swingy. It's very possible to NOT draw appropriate cards. It's not a broken mechanism, but it can be extremely frustrating when your hoping for a war/aggression or tactic card when playing a high or low military, respectively. It can be impossible to play military catch up if the leader draws into good war/aggressions and that makes a very unfun situation for the target.
I like this game and rate it high as it is a very ambitious one.   However, I think that it is an overrated game in the sense that it has several limitations people rarely talk about. First of all, this feels more as a videogame than a board game. The game upkeep and moving parts may become a nightmare to new players (better play on smartphone, tablet or pc). Well, I own the digital copy. Second, the game depends to a great extent in knowing the cards of the game by heart (new players at clear disadvantage not completely associated to skills). Third, the theme does not come across at all, everything feels completely ahistorical. It is an abstract game where names of some historical figures and inventions have been introduced with a blender. The result is largely incoherent an sketchy (unlike what Tom Vasel said, I don't see how anyone can learn history from the game). I don't feel I am creating a civilization but simply playing a card game (Race for the Galaxy is arguably as much a civ game as this one). The civilizations created in the game make no sense whatsoever, fighting with jets and medieval cavalry, with a monarchy led by Ghandi?  Anyway, I still think the game is a technical achievement and enjoyable if you have 3 or 4 hours to play it. If the game was as good as some claim, it would get to the table more often I reckon.
Edit April 2020. Rating up from 8 to 9 with the new expansion New leaders and wonders. Have not played since 2016/2017. The expansion brought it back to the table. Enjoy the new ways to victory. More fun and even more balanced. Still a little to the long side in play time. Takes the last star rating.
[size=8][b] Digital:[/b] [url=https://apps.apple.com/us/app/through-the-ages/id966245474]iOS Mobile App[/url] [/size]
Possibly my favorite game.  Intricate, elegant, just a strategic joy. 
A game I hate to love bc I'm so bad at it, but really enjoy it despite being so bad
love the new story changes... plays well w/ two otherwise it's two long
This is a huge improvement on the original, just from a visual and game flow standpoint. One of my favorite games to play.
2017-10-04 - Like Nations, the civ theme is there in the cards, but I never really felt it. I quite like the engine building here, and the way the event deck works is very interesting. It's a little long, but definitely a good game.
43. Lo he jugado mucho en la app, no puedo parar de jugar es brutal. Vaya juegazo es increible.
Great update to an already wonderful game!  I can't wait to play again!
This wasn't "love at first play" for me, but once it clicked, I was hooked. Yes, this is a long, complex, and fiddly game. Sure, there are thematic oddities that crop up periodically (Napoleon commanding an Air Force?!). And yes, some of the artwork is a bit on the cartoony/juvenile side. Even with these caveats, Through the Ages is a masterpiece. The array of decisions with which you are faced each turn captures the tension and angst of empire management like no other game I have played. There is *always* one more thing you'd like to do on your turn (several, actually), so you are constantly evaluating the opportunity costs and timing of your decisions. Nothing feels scripted, and sometimes any one of several choices will be a viable path forward. This is a definite brain burn, but well worth it.  + New Leaders and Wonders Expansion
I need to play more before I give a 10, but from first game I think it has improved on the original Really happy with it!
Gave it a solid 10 after a considerable amount of plays. It endures the test of time!
Als App eins der genialsten Wirtschaftsstrategiespiele überhaupt ist das Brettspiel auf dem Tisch eine echte Zumutung durch die unverhältnismäßig hohe Downtime und daraus resultierende Gesamtspielzeit. Daher 10 für die App und keine 6 Punkte für die physische Version.
Best civilization board game! This game exceeds its hype. Love the original game. Love this game more.  So addictive.  So intense, such an engine builder. The entire game you are balancing your strength, science and culture with your opponents.  
THE Civ game. It's a longer game than I normally play, but it never really feels like a slog. I do wish there were multiple win conditions other than just culture.
Improves significantly upon what was already a top game.  75% of improvements are cosmetic but the gameplay tweaks are important and well thought out.
The best civilization game, period. Removing the map and simulating scarcity and opportunity through an ever-evolving parade of cards allows players to focus entirely on technology and development (engine-building), reducing chance by removing exploration and minimizing the impact of discovery. When TtA first came out, it completely redefined what a civilization game is and could be. I understand those who say they miss the map. I enjoy those games as well, but they present a different problem to solve, one with a bit less control. Through the Ages is a deeply strategic game built on the foundation of many, many small decisions. Because each decision supports a larger story arc, you have an incredible ability to change your trajectory based on circumstance and have your civilization grow in ways you may not have initially envisioned. The gradual building of your civilization, brick by brick and card by card, creates a level of investment that I have not seen achieved by any other game, much less any other civilization game.  This edition is better in every way than the original. The components are easier to handle and much more attractive. It includes a traditionally structured rulebook, the lack of which was the most disappointing aspect of the original version for me. The rules are excellently tweaked to balance the dominant strategies that have been discovered over the last decade.
Deep and complex, this game evokes Sid Meier's Civilization genre respectfully.  The game is hard to learn and takes some patience to get into, but once you do, the gameplay flows nicely from round to round.  Difficult to teach, and tough to recommend to new players of the genre, but a great game if you enjoy rewriting world history for a few hours
Streamlined edition of TtA, that I like more, with less bureaucracy and therefore a little faster. The downtime is still high. Because of this and the high probability of doing mistakes, I don't not rate it as 10.
Very long game, and once you start losing a game you're dead
I own the digital version both on Steam and iOS. It is a fantastic port of this great game!
It is aptly named. TTA is an engine builder that plays through three broad periods of civilization. The pace of development feels glacial, so it is likely to be enjoyed only by those who are interested in committing a few (or several) hours to play. The 120 min play time printed on the box is misleading. Still, it is engrossing and I couldn’t help but marvel at the ingenuity, thought and care that must have gone into its design.
great ideas.  sound mechanisms.  But ultimately  this is just too much game for me and my group to properly enjoy.  no rating.  
[sleeves]Mayday sleeve size: Sails of Glory - Orange/Yellow: Premium (MDG-7135, 50/pack 125% thicker) - (50 x 75mm)[/sleeves]
Wonderful system, albeit game takes long even with 3. App implementation is wonderful and quick.
Very steep learning curve but, oh boy was it worth it!  Takes a while to get used to the fiddly upkeep phase though
it's long, complex and hard to play. But from a game designing pov,  putting together a game like this is amazing
Even though I am terrible at this game, I keep trying.
Very strategic engine builder, but more abstract than most civilization games. Player down time is a serious issue with this one that keeps it from true greatness.
Preliminary rating after one complete play with two players. Could go up a point, probably not two. Likely won't get to play with three players, which looks like the sweet spot. Hope to, though.
I own and have played the original, but haven’t played the latest version.  Is this version so much better than the original to deserve such a significantly higher rating? I assumed it was the lengthy play time that dropped the original down, but apparently that can’t be the issue. Are people reviewing the digital version?   I’d say both this and the original should be in the top 10 if play length wasn’t an issue, but to me it is a problem, so both belong farther down. I gave the original 7.5.
I don't think this classic has aged well.  There are other civilization games that accomplish similar things with much less complexity and in much less time.   Nations comes to mind.  Yes, it is a very good game, but for me, it overstays its welcome, extremely fiddly, and overly complex.
The best board game ever just got better with this new version. I cannot recommend this game with high enough praise. Epic in scope and feel. We play at about 1.5h/person.
Experience (35%) - 4/5 Mechanics (20%) - 4/5 Involvement (20%) - 4/5 Game Length (10%) - 1/5 Weight of Game (10%) - 3/5 Aesthetics (5%) - 3/5  Although you don't see it in my "Plays", I played it a couple of times before I had the BG Stats app that would track my plays.
Awesome game for the hardcore gamer. The choices in this game is so tough and you truly have to plan ahead.  The moving card row is cool.  The rules are tough and it takes quite some time to learn the game, especially if you are not a hardcore gamer. I would recommend learning it by playing the awesome app.
A really solid game with good iconography, beutiful components and a connecting theme. What I hold against it is that it takes very long time (too long) and that military is so important.
Interesting interwinding game mechanics and theme. Tends to drag on a bit too long.
Is a bit too long for me to have it be my favorite, but I love the theme so much of the progression of mankind. I just don't get to play it much because I don't have many gaming friends to play with.
Card game. Supper long- 50m/player 4- Resource management  brass seems better and faster. lots of down time due to math /optimize turns
Best Civ-game that exist IMHO, and even slightly beter than the old version. Very strategic, and feels very much like you are building up a complex civilization, even if there is no map. Beware: very long with 4 players. I would say 3 players maximum, unless 4 players all know the game very well.  2 players works well too, and can be played within 2-3 hours.
Long playtime, but it worth to play it. It's addictive. I can't stop to play until the game finishes.
No creo que esté mal, pero los tableros me parecen poco atractivos. Hay otros juegos de similares características mucho más llamativos.
Its a fun game but there's lot of combos that can get out of hand that you have to just memorize. Randomness can screw you over pretty bad sometimes too.
I can appreciate the strengths of Through the Ages - the required strategic planning, the management of competing demands, the variability. The game has real depth of decisions and is a constant challenge for the best players.   But there are two major drawbacks that will ever keep this from becoming a favourite. The first is the length of individual player turns. Towards the end, turns of five minutes are not unusual, even for players who are not suffering from AP. I can't imagine playing TtA with the full complement of four players. The second drawback is the focus on military. There are lots of developments to improve production, science and culture. None of them should be neglected completely but there are workarounds if you fall behind in of these areas. But military is a must. Falling behind in this area is a surefire way to the demise of civilization. Plundering and war will strike weaker civilizations, stealing culture (=VPs) directly and crippling the future potential.  These two drawbacks relegate TtA to a two-player game for me. Potentially three players as long as no hardcore optimizer with the knowledge of optimal military engines is a the table. The new version went some way to alleviate the worst military excesses of the original but military might still is the name of the game.
This is so tense and dramatic from beginning to end. I miss the apocalyptic wars but everything works better in this version (and the previous one was a top game already).  FUNDAS: no enfundado (330 cartas tamaño pequeño, no estándar).
I always played with 2 players, but I think that more than three is too much. This is a great game but the first games are quite slow till you understand everything properly.
Have just bought this after clocking up several games on the iPad app - which continues to kick my butt but I'm getting better. Have played the tabletop version only once solo. This game has fired Nations for me. Update - played a 6 hour game in two 3 hour sessions with my son-in-law. Yes it was long but we just enjoyed it for what it was. We both enjoyed it better than Nations. We found Nations boring in comparison. Looking forward to the next game.
What a joy this game has been to explore and learn. I went from dislike to ambivalence to enjoyment to adoration over the course of 40 plays. Sure there is a steep learning curve, but what game worth its salt doesn't? There are so many levers for players to fine tune each aspect of their civilization that the game is entirely driven by players expressing themselves in creative ways.   The core tension that drives TtA is the military arms race. Players can play as aggressively or as passively as they want. But ultimately, the core differentiator between TtA and other Euros is the threat of the arms race and the eventual War over Culture. Just like in real life, it would be lovely if you could just build libraries and theatres, but that always needs to be balanced against the looming threats from other civilizations. While this creates an exquisite thematic and mechanical integration, what it offers from a gameplay perspective is an opportunity for players to manage one another's positions. A player who is far behind in culture can at minimum make a gamble with their military to have a shot at winning. Even without actually winning a War over Culture, it forces other civilizations to build up their militaries as well which expends precious resources and slows their progress toward culture.  Vlaada Chvátil has been cemented in my mind not only as a designer with incredible range, but also as a designer who can build comprehensive, interconnected systems that are a joy to pilot.  I should note though that this review and this rating is specifically for playing TtA asynchronously on the app (with mixed leaders/wonders from the expansion). The primary reason for this is the information tracking. The app handles all the bookkeeping and information tracking so you can focus on making the best decisions possible. On the table, TtA is a 4-hour slog of fiddling with various tracks and attempting to make sound decisions while trying to not frustrate your opponents with overly long turns. I would go as far as to say that, to me, the reason the board game was designed was to make the app possible.
Enfundado: Inserto: Reglas en PDF: --Solitario (borrar si no) Reboxed: Ubicación: Principal Armario Trastero
Rewriting history for 2-4 players, best with three.  Not suitable for solitaire play.  120 mins., age 14+, weight 4.42.
Really nice civilization card game. Lot better and quicker with the app version. Won't play the physical game after playing the app ;)
I'm terrible at this game, but I still love playing it.
Digital app. Maybe best civ boardgame ever... digital. Physical version has a lot of maintenance for my taste. But you can't be wrong if you chose this game. Awesome.
This game replaced Nations for me. Very long but incredibly well-designed.
I respect the game, but it is too long and complex for me. At some point I hope to be able to dedicate more time to it.
Didn't personally interest me as much as I hoped. Will look to give it another chance one day.
Euro duro. Sólo jugado en APP. En mesa creo que sería un infierno de mantenimiento y habría que dominarlo mucho para tener claro todo lo que sucede ya lo que puedes acceder. Ya dura en APP 1 hora, no quiero imaginar lo pesado que se podría hacer en mesa.  En concepto, a pesar de ser cosas muy abstractas, un excelente juego.
Too much downtime to be played on board, at least for my taste. I am becoming more and more allergic to downtime. Bookkeeping is also very tedious, so I would rather play this online.  Could be a 9 or 10, if played regularly with same (fast) players, but that seems to be a dream never come true.
Good game, but length keeps it down. Not a game you can casually suggest.  I do look forward to the next time I can play it however, just no idea when that will be.
Never spent $10 on an app before.. but it was worth it. The physical board game requires too much upkeep imo
You will never play this through ages :)  Awesome design, clear inspiration - if you can get to commit 7 hours with at least 3 other players.  Same problem as Twilight imperium: if life was utopia we would only play stuff like this. It's just unrealistic
What an incredible game. So much going on - so complex, and yet easier to wrap my head around than I thought it would be.
The game consists of 3 phases but you can simply ignore phase 1 and 2 to focus on those culture wars where you can easily hunt others down who were 150 points ahead of you. And this is not a jealous exaggeration. Of course it also depends on some luck that you get the right cards and can block those for others but it doesn't change a thing.  Therefore you need 4 hours to play where you can save up at least 2 1/2 hours for the first two phases and you can make a pritty good guess who's making the run when it comes to phase 3 so you can skip those other 1 1/2 hour too. Even if two players get too strong they cannot stop each other because the mechanics prevent them from fighting each other. There is almost nothing you get from winning the fight because the other one gets even more points from fighting the weaker player then he lost to you.
It is honestly beyond me how this game could ever end up being in the top 10, let alone number 2 overall. I've played this several times now and it is indeed one of the most terrible experiences I ever had and a huge waste of time for what this game tries to achieve. Seriously - I wouldn't recommend buying this.
Epic civ builder. Needs 3-4 to make it interesting.
Played two games with 2P. I want to love this game more than I do. However, a 2+ hour game should not have the level of randomness that I can see in this one - and there really isn't a way to avoid it, considering the game is largely card draw dependent. I love interaction in my games, but only if that is the focal point of the game. I don't enjoy it in "build it up" game or euros, particularity if there is no way to mitigate it - and there is no way to mitigate it in this game without good card draws.  Sigh. Well, I guess I'll reacquire Nations and try that one again. I'll need to practice this one more with the app, but I fear the play time against the random punishment won't play out well for me.
A game I play only with my father in law but we both enjoy the game a lot (I think he enjoys it more than me).  We typically don't go to war against each other and it's more about building an engine.  It is a long game at two players and I couldn't imagine playing with more than 2 people.
I'm not objective about this game. But despite any criticism you could move to it... it remains a masterpiece, an epic civ game where strategy merge with tactic in an unforgettable journey through the history.
At its core this a good game. It is however fundamentally flawed as you have to be militant in order to do well. The game also lasts way too long and is rather creating a rinse and repeat feeling. Further weakness related to this is that all the cards are always in play. There is really no specific need to play this as Nations is also around.
Yep, this game is the real deal. It has so many things that I like: civ game, very Euro, very fiddly, superbly balanced, intricate and complex.  The game is actually not as difficult as I had thought. It is complex, there's so much going on, and everything is interconnected. So rich, so well-designed, and thought out.
El juego es muy complejo, no tengo a nadie con quien intentar jugarlo en persona. Sin embargo logré concretar partidas contra la IA en la aplicación lo cual me resultó entretenido, aún así es un juego que en su versión física va ser prácticamente imposible de sacar y estoy muy tentado a que salga de mi ludoteca.
Not yet played.  I have played the iOS version, which doesn't really count.
I love this game. It is such a creative, challenging, and diverse game. It reminds me very much of  the Civilization games by Sid Meier. It is hard for some of my friends to play because of the complexity and the various components you need to keep track of (points, happiness, food, production, science, military, leaders) but I am a huge fan.
Very great game with the right group. But a little long.
The app version is dramatically better than the board game. All the fiddly stuff that makes the game drag being automated is a huge blessing for this game.
Es un juego muy complejo, el cual tenes que estar dispuesto a concentrarte y prestarle mucha atencion. Mecanicamente impecable. La primera partida realmente es para cometer errores y aprender todo lo que tiene el juego. Voy jugando unas 4 partidas entre diferente numeros de jugadores? (si te gusta el civilization, es muyyy probable que te guste este juego)
Feels like Civilization in a board game. Extremely fun once you get started playing. Learning the rules is quite a task, however. Managing the affairs of your civilization is very rewarding, and there's good competition with the other players.
Civilization the boardgame as it should have been done. Tense, strategic with each action being meaningful, many ways to victory and plays great with 2 players. This one knocks it out of the park for me. Updated to a perfect 10 after finally playing a full 4 player game, assuming you have a 3 pals with some time to kill, I struggle to find a better way to kill an afternoon. Just keeps getting better and better with each playthrough. This along with terraforming mars are in a league of their own. 11/10
Nice artwork, but it takes too long time to play through. We spent more than 6 hours in total on our first play through (3 nights).  
If you're teaching this game to someone for the first time, you should absolutely mention the fact that if they ignore military, there is a high chance that they cannot win the game.  That would be the first thing I mention, before explaining anything else.  I've played many games with multiple routes to victory, and there are usually pros and cons to each one, but none of them as debilitating as 'target player who focused on military takes the win from you'  I don't even mind 'take that' mechanics, as I love Argent, and that game has a lot of 'take that' actions, but none of them are going to lose you the game in one action.  I knew going in it would be a long game, but even by long standards for me, 4.5 hours was grueling.  That and the fact that 3 of us conceding in what was maybe the third to the last turn, and it just felt like a waste.  This is the first time I've played a game that had a rule written in for what happens when a player concedes on their turn.  The fact the designer wrote in a rule on how to withdraw if something so game-endingly bad happens to you that it makes you want to quit the game, should have been a red flag to me.
The slightly streamlined gameplay earns this game a solid 10. Gots to play more. Way more... And did I shout out my love for Civ-games from the rooftops yet? :D
Still a really great game. I'm not all that knowledgeable about the older version to pinpoint the changes but at least the art is a tremendous improvement. If it was a bit easier to keep track of what others have and it played faster than I'd easily score this higher. Which might explain why I'm rather fond of the digital version.
As spreadsheety as it is, I like this better than the original. Not sure when I'm going to find the time for a 4- or 3p, and my wife mocks it mercilessly for only having one woman among the leaders (and she's right to). This thing is destined for the trade pile. It's honestly time for me to quit trying Vlaada Chvatil's games at this point - I always appreciate their craftsmanship and depth, but I have yet to actually enjoy one. Games with time pressure stress me out, so that means no Galaxy Trucker or Panic Station. I don't particularly like fantasy, and especially not metafantasy ("Let's have a larf at lame genre tropes!") so that rules out Dungeon Lords and Pets. Mage Knight is almost a full-time job and a tedious one at that. I'll be just fine without ever playing another; my enjoyment and his admittedly immense design skill just occupy two completely different planes of existence. And yeah, dude, you could find more than one woman and more than two nonwhite leaders. Read a damn book.
Received in a trade. Also own the New Leaders and Wonders expansion.
Game is excellent but it is one of those games that if you make one or two bad moves you can have really hard time playing this game. It's kinda unforgiven for the new players and there must be huge power of will for new players to play this game again. If you play this first time against some1 who has played this game couple of times you won't be having fun.
O: 25.1.2017  S: 23.8.2020  Logged plays are mostly via the App.  Rating it 9.5/10 on the App.   Offline plays : 1
Easy to learn, hard to master, best civilization game I've ever played, worth every cent
Everything is almost perfect in this game. The only down side are the component, this game deserves a deluxe version.  +nc+
This is based solely on playing through the app.  It's a very fun game, but I cannot imagine the giant chore this would be in physical form......  Still a fun app for sure though.
I Bought this recently and played last month, I completely enjoyed the game even though i lost, quality of the player board is bad which can be improved. Still need to brush with the rules as there are many... But i loved it....
Jak w gestii Pandemic'i chętnie rozigrałbym partię z kimś niemało ogarniętym w pozycji. :)
Update: after 2 years i finally played the pc version which is incredible! I love it, much better than the beloved Sid Meiers Civilization series! I will not log the computer games though.  Vlaada rocks! game added at my collection: January 2016
Despite being a new and revised edition the game feels dated. The game takes too long, has too much downtime and it is too fiddly. The game is repetitive and the luck of the draw with the events and the military cards are present and can be annoying given the duration of the game. I'll probably never play it again.
For such a long game it amazed me how it kept me engaged. There can be a big wait time between plays but I found that since you are busy planning your next steps most of the time this is not an issue
The new version of one of my favourite games. A good improvement that makes me want to play it even more.
[microbadge=31345] [i]~ Own digital version on Android[/i] [microbadge=5112] [i]~ Own digital version on STEAM[/i]
New artwork is very nice, layout makes more sense though its a pity they didn't find a way of having just a single board rather than the 4 or 5 they have now. I like the addition of the clear plastic cubes over the previous versions tiny wooden disks. The cubes are so much easier to handle.  Changes are minimal but seem effective in stopping the runaway military issue. One caveat, that thought is based on just a single play so far. 
A revised copy is worth the purchase. The best civ game and it doesn't even have a board!
This provides us excellent experiences with nerve-wracking !
I feel like this is the definite version of Through the Ages.  It feels improved in every respect.  Michelangelo is still broken as fuck though if you get enough rock production to ride him for wonder production! 
A truly excellent game with a prohibitively long playtime. The app version solves all the upkeep issues, reducing the playtime for a wonderful experience.
a lot of fun, but a lot of things to keep track of.
Triumph in tight, finely-tuned game design. Gives me vibes of playing StarCraft competitively and having planned build orders that are dependent on opponent scouting and whatever shows up on the board (they literally patched cards in the expansion). If crunchy, think-on-your-feet, cutthroat Euros sounds appealing to you this is a must-play.  Digital version is amazing, and 10/10 since it takes away the long set up time and all the hours it takes to run the turn maintenance. 
It's quite good, but very long play time and down time. Nothing to do while others are playing.
Very enjoyable 3 player game. We were far too slow but I blame the learning curve - despite the superb Gaming Rules video by Paul Grogan. Currently playing on-line to improve knowledge of the game.
Estrategico y enseguida puees perder por una mala decision de turno, un poco solitario.
This game is so tedious and the theming is incredibly cringe inducing for something that came out in 2015. The leaders are super eurocentric, the fundamentalism card has a picture of a mosque, etc. There are much better games with similar mechanics.
For years, I was put off at the thought of playing a Civ game that lacked a map.  Boy was I wrong.  This is a terrific design!
Hate Draft, the game, otherwise known as Through the Ages, is definitely a strong game. The best aspect is the card market, but the downsides outweigh this in my opinion. There’s a lot of micromanaging of your player board, and the War aspect leaves a lot to be desired. I think it’s a well above average euro, and honestly a must own for euro enthusiasts, but I feel that the player interaction is too little for my taste - limited primarily to the market. For two players I think it’s pretty solid, but I agree with the masses that four seems as though it would overstay. I think Vlada achieved what he was going for here, I’m just not the target audience.
Have the iOS app.  Love it. Play against AI all the time. Very difficult to beat on hardest level. 
Complex, but highly rewarding. The Steam version should be an example for every digital adaptation of a board game.
Good civilization building game except for two things which together mean this game will never be played again.  One, the combat, or directly aggressive elements of the game, are random and aren't readily or equitably available to all players.  Therefore, one player might be targeted simply because he's the weakest nation and the attacker has the right attack cards.  But the one being attached might not be able to defend himself because he doesn't have the correct defense cards which themselves are scarcely available and hard to obtain.  Having lost to the attack, the loss can be significant and at a minimum cause a player to lose a turn or points that were earned over several turns.  Furthermore, the defeated player can't necessarily retaliate later because the opportunities to attack are not readily available to all players in a fair manner.  Thus a player in one round can be smacked down by one player, or two players even, with crippling effects yet he may never have an opportunity to retaliate against the attacking player(s) because the ability to do so is only randomly and scarcely available.  Second, the game is long.  Very, very long.  The length of the game means there is no tolerance for random, take-that elements that can severely cripple a player with little chance to either defend or retaliate.  I will likely not play this game again as the time commitment does not provide enough game play satisfaction.  Note:  Second edition artwork is mostly very good and replaces the horrible artwork in the first edition.
Although it is a good game, too much time is taken for admins (pushing cubes and cards). This makes the game too long and giving not-so-tight experience. It could be at least an 8+ score game otherwise. Better designed for an app or a PC game. 
I really wanted to love this game.  It has great artwork, super theme, and a card drafting mechanism I found very enjoyable. The problem with this game is you really have to love very heavy/long games. This game has over 20 pages of instruction.  The rules videos are excellent but last nearly an hour.  My friend and I were new to the game and at an hour we were not even 30% into the game and we decided to stop. For two new players you are looking at 3 hours minimum.   Your problem will be finding someone who has an entire afternoon to play such a complex game.   As such, for most people, you are only going to be able to play this game a couple times and then life will get in your way.  This game is highly ranked on BGG because BGG is all about people who love games which is perfect.  The problem is most of my friends and family are not lovers of games so I have to pick games that are not so long and involved.  Unfortunately, I would pass on this game if you are not in a gaming group.  If you are part of a gaming group, you will play this game many many times.
I would say, this is the completion of the civilization-building game. No game can beat this one at least in 10 years.
Hmmm, ez tényleg nagyon jó... De kettesben is kb. 1 óra egy korszak. A mi játéktempónkkal így kb. 3 óra a teljes játék. Persze van mód rövidebb változatra, de nyilván az ember úgy van vele, hogy jó lenne teljeset játszani. Ha valami csoda folytán legalább kettesben 2 óra környékére le lehetne szorítani a játékidőt, az bizony csodás lenne.  A játékmenet amúgy elég gördülékeny a jelentős mennyiségű szabály ellenére. Azért a tanulási folyamat nem a legrövidebb, és tanítani sem olyan egyszerű.  Sajnos a jelenlegi életvitelünkkel nehezen összeegyeztethető egy ilyen hosszú játékidejű társas...:(
Seems daunting to learn, but the mechanics actually aren't all that complex. We did play the "short game," and will happily dive into the long game next time. As long a game as it was (4 hours), I didn't want it to end.
2-4 players (3), Competitive ~120 mins ~12-14k HUF Complexity: 4.40
A captivating game with engaging tactical card-selection. However, can be quite punishing for newer players as they can easily screw up their own economy.
Bien meilleur que la V3. C'est LE jeu à thème de civilisation.
An awesomely epic game that is deep and engaging.  A bit too long, though, maybe. . .?
Very deep and very long - a game that deserves much study and a lot of plays. (10 rating is for the app version of the game; probably nearer a 6-7 when playing face to face given the length of the game and the amount of record-keeping required.)
Buen juego de civilizaciones. Lo que menos me gusta es ese puteo que hay, que puede hacer que tras mucho esfuerzo en llevar a cabo tu estrategia tu rival te vaya quitando cosas.
This version of the game deserves to go to the top of the BGG charts as it now surpasses it's previous version as the changes that the CGE team have made make this smoother and more balanced.  Could this be the new BGG #1? 
I've played TTA for years, and loved it. This version is much better than anything that came before. The quality of the components and the changes in the rules all make this a nearly perfect game. The truth is, though, that since I can play this online in less than half the time it takes me to set up, explain, and play the tabletop game, I was never going to get this game to the table again. 
I like the original TtA a lot. This new version only improves the experience in my mind. Subtle changes can make a big difference. The change from little cylinder markers to cubes is the best update.
[b]Purchase/Selling History:[/b] App ‘17  [b]Rating: 8[/b] [i]Design rating[/i]: [b]4.5[/b] [i]Component rating[/i]: [b]1[/b] [i]Willingness to play rating[/i]: [b]1.5[/b] [i]Fun rating[/i]: [b]1[/b]   [b]Player considerations:[/b]   [b]My thoughts:[/b] Only played the app version, but so far I like the game a lot and I’m not great at it yet either.
Brilliant design and loads of fun to optimize your economic engine.  Nice balance between military and economic development.  Fiddly and long, it is a cube-pushers dream and a bit of a brain burner.  But as a map lover, I miss not having a map.  Initial rating, with room to move higher.
Just awesome game. Strategics, mechanics, replay value, is just amazing.  Is a long game so, if you don't have time: go for the app version.
I have several issues with this game. Fist of all, it is long and fiddly. Graphic design is also not the best what you can see. And finally, the learning curve is quite steep and unless you are experienced with the game, you will loose terribly. Also the player who starts losing in military power can leave and go home, trying to play further while ransacked every turn is the worst experience in this game. On the other hand, game is quite balanced, with a lot of challenges and choices and quite internally consistent. I prefer iPad/iPhone version of this game, where you do not have to solve issues with fiddly cubes and billions of cards on game board so the game takes much less time.
This was one of my first games that have a very long session each game and I loved it. The way and option you get to choose and build with the cards you chose and have many varieties of ways to play which then gives it a great number of replay abilities. Sadly I don't own it anymore since I have given it away when I moved. However, I would get it again in the future.
[#78] (#48) This is the best civilization builder I have played.  Need to get this one played more.
Complex system, great graphics (now that it got a new look), the potential of the game will be even higher when the New Leaders and Wonders come out.
Way too long and got quite boring. I've played it around 3 times.
I love this game.  While it doesn't do some of the things other Civilization board games do, I still like it the best.  I've played all of Sid Meier's Civilization video games since I was a young lad, and have always enjoyed them.  I'm also a big fan of world history, maybe in part due to that franchise.  The way resource management is done in this game is fantastic.  Upgrading your civilization in all the different ways is wonderful.   The biggest thing this game is missing vs other civ games is a world map presence, as you never put guys out on a map or move and take territories like say Clash of Cultures.  Combat is also a lot different, and arguably not as good, but TTA is about more than just combat.  Unlike those other games, in which combat feels like a big piece of the game, here it is weighted more evenly amongst the other aspects of your civilization (imo, at least).   Advancing through the different technologies and ages is the biggest thing here, and it is done much better than any of the other civ board games I've played.  Changing your government is big, as is picking which leaders and wonders to get. There is a lot to this game, and it's kind of hard to teach, but it's an amazing game for folks like me who like building up their civilization from nothing to greatness. It suffers in plays due to its complexity.  Better game at 3p than 2p, for example, but finding a 3rd player willing to dive into it can be a challenge.  
Digital version. No desire to own the physical version.
It's just so much easier to play it on BGA. The physical game is barely ever going to leave my shelf.
I guess, in physical from, with all these shitty cubes it is fiddly as hell, but online, on Board Game Arena (where all the boring an error-prone admin is done for you), it is a decent game!
Even though I rarely win at this game, I keep coming back for more. Maybe a little overwhelming the first time you play, but it will quickly grow on you if you like engine-building games. Edit: now having played it multiple times on the exceptionally well made app, I never want to play the physical version ever again. Saves hours in game time.
Baffled by the design choice to make this game last as long as it does. My first and only game took us around ten hours, spread over three sessions. Lots of boring downtime while your opponents do things you don't care about, and you can't plan much for your turn because you don't know what's going to happen in the card market. The gameplay was OK but didn't massively excite me. It took me the first four hours to get an engine going, during which time I could do frustratingly little on my turns; then it picked up and I started enjoying myself, but it's still a poor fun:time ratio. On top of that, the eurocentric ‘march of progress’ story being told is for me equal parts boring, depressing, and objectionable. It's been interesting to check out, but I can't see myself picking this in future when so many other games provide a similar amount of interest and enjoyment in a third or a quarter of the time.
재밌긴 한데 거의 어플로만 해서... 이걸 보드게임이라 해야 하나 의문이긴 하다... 어플이 너무 편해서 문제인 게임.
Longest euro ever. Runaway leader combo issues where you play for 9+ hours with the winner never in doubt.
Own the App not the physical game.  I think this would be my favorite game, but due to game length it only gets played online.  Complex but enthralling.
Eu nem quero mais ver na minha frente. Os eventos são muito aleatórios e favorecem quem já está na frente e desfavorece quem está atrás na pontuação ou força. Não tenho vontade de pensar sobre como usar as cartas militares.
Outstanding game. Possibly a 10. We will see after more plays
Ideal game. A good example of creating original, climatic and well balanced games.
New edition of an already excellent game. Minor changes to some of the cards. More important changes related to tactic cards and the resolution of military actions. Good improvements, but the original version remains playable and is not automatically replaced. Both are interchangeable for me.
The game is fun to play over and over. I enjoy building a civilization and balancing resources, military, and advancements. Even with the same cards being used, each game takes a unique path depending on your opponents actions and when cards are revealed.
Still actually haven't gotten this to the table, rating is purely from playing this digitally. Awesome game, will probably sell the physical copy. 
Very well done CIV game. Although we love playing on "real maps" this abstract CIV version really is one of our favourites. Best with 3 players, with 4 players the downtime (the real negative thing of this game) get's a pain in the a... and one player always has the feeling all important cards are unavailable for him.  Besides that a lot has even improved from the first version that is really worth making the change. Artwork might be to discussed, but the less fiddly corruption system, the less deadly military system and other small but important changes are a great deal.
Crunchy puzzly goodness with an addicting and surprisingly strong theme. App is really well done.
Стоимость: 2500 р. + 230 р. протекторы Продавец: Данил Васильев (БНИ)
Not for me. The game drags for too long.... Oh, I forgot... Boring too. Wouldn't play it again. Sorry
Never again.  Takes forever. To summarize, beautiful shiny pretty pieces, nice mechanism (a bit like Civ or the new world), but falls flat on its face with the unbalanced play and inevitable trampling on the weak. The only hope for the weak is to find a treaty card. The game lasts about 7 hours.
many plays on the app. But you can understand the worker and resource management bether on the table. 
This game is incredible, and is easily one of my favourite games. The only downside is that the digital versions (especially board game arena) are way less hassle than the physical one. It's hard to justify opening the box because of how good digital is.
This game hooked me from the first time I played the first edition. An awesome Civ experience, albeit abstract, that is a challenge every game played. Initially it may have felt a little fiddly, but after a few plays the game becomes fairly intuitive. This version has streamlined the original, but in my opinion both play equally as well.  While it can be a significant time investment with newer or more deliberate players, it's a game I'll never say no to. 
Please note all "For Trades" under this profile are not actually for trade.  They are for in store stocking purposes only.
My favourite Civ-Building Game. I never thought that a Civ Building Game without a board can work. I like that the military part is not a major Point in this game, but still important enough that you have to care. Update: I played it now in 2 weeks like 15-20 times and its awesome. It is also my wifes favorite game, so I gave it now a clean 10.
Very enjoyable! The length-complexity ratio and the length-fun ratio are absolutely well balanced. You even don't recognise that time goes by while playing.
Based upon online play. Took an hour to learn from watching a professional video so whilst its great fun to play, can't imagine having the time to play it in real life including a teach. Superb implementation of Civilisation PC game and is incredibly similar to Nations but more complex and longer.
Just brilliant! Wrestling yourself through the rules on your own for the first time may be a hassle, although you can rely on videos (or if you're lucky a patient teacher) for that. But it is definitely worth the effort. Somehow it succeeds in capturing the civ building spirit I'm looking for better than every other game I've tried (srry Sid). Due to play time it doesn't hit the tabele a lot, but when it does it is epicnesss guaranteed. 
Improved from the earlier edition. More streamlined, less fiddly.
Really like it, feels like playing a master piece, but if players ignore all pvp, war, agresion, features could feel like playing your own game, and also it's difficult for me to bring on the table. But dont get me wrong ill always im on the mod for this one.
Makes a great game even better. Rating based on phone version/app. Physical version would be lower
Digital Version. Really fun game, with a ton of choices and interaction. Seems like a lot of bookkeeping for the physical version, but I play KDM fine - so maybe it wouldn't bother me keeping up with stuff. I recommend the digital version to anyone, as it has a lot of different 'scenarios / game types'.
Sólo para muy muy jugones con mucho tiempo y que vayan a jugarlo repetidamente. No para familias, ni jugador ocasional
Wspaniała i rozbudowana gra. Jedyny minus to długi czas gry, oraz problem ze znalezieniem partnerów do gry.
Bardzo fajna ale duża i długa fajnie śmiga na aplikacji 
My all time favorite. It is one game where even if I lose, I feel satisfied after playing it.
A bit better than the previous one as the negative interaction is quite limited, yet still super fiddly, long and tiring.
Updated rating from 9 to 7.5 - design and mechanics starts to feel old, fiddly, solitaire and way too long to play with new players. Iconography of one time bonuses vs. production is throwing people off, lots of references to rulebook needed. Rulebook far from good. App delivers a better experience than boardgame, will stick with online plays.
App + Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders (2020)
Love it! Need it and want to play it again as soon as I can!
Based on one play. I've had the German edition of the original, but I'm still in the process of crafting paste-ups for the cards so I actually played this new version first. It's really not THE civ game for me, and I really see it as more of a resource management Euro than a "real" civ game. And for an engine building efficiency Euro your play can be a bit at the mercy of the cards, especially if you're going for a more politics/military oriented strategy. Plays at a good pace compared to its weight, and will get a lot more play. I'll probably up the rating after a couple more plays, because it seems to do what it's set out to do really well.
Si descuidas el aspecto militar sos el jugador comodin para q todos te peguen
[BGCOLOR=#33CC99] [b]9 [/BGCOLOR] Feb 2022 - 11 plays[/b] This game feels so great to play. It has all the wonderful engine building satisfaction of euros, but also a small dose of clashes and antagonism. The expansion deck really feels like a love letter to fans - unnecessary but much appreciated. I hope to explore it someday.
Cannot say much about this game yet. But I love mechanics. Unfortunately not everyone willing to play it. But I think it's nicely done and nicely balanced, so for me it's definitely in my top-10 list anyway :) 
It's such a shame that this game has some serious flaws because certain parts of the game is absolutely exceptional.  Most notably the whole army dynamic is really weird and it doesn't make any sens that you have to draw the right cards to be able to use your own troops.  That being said, there is a tonne of cool mechanics and enjoyable moments in the game and I have had some quite enjoyable games with it. In the end, the game is strangely neiched as the theme is great but the strategy is random at times and the mechanics are very quirky and tedious.
Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization is the new edition of Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization, with many changes small and large to the game's cards over its three ages.
Due to lack of plays since 2018 but mostly because of other fantastic games I've played lately, my 9.5 rating drops to 9. My gut tells me that's about right.
The heavy game I like most (with TI 3 or 4). A bit more interaction (although it has wayyyy more than most euros) would help. The expansion ist great and helps replayability a lot. A little from "glitzy" or "extraordinarity" would be appreciated in the next version.
I play it usually on my mobile phone, as I'm still learning.
Improves dramatically on the original edition.  Needs more cards for replay value.  extremely fiddly, takes an extremely long time to learn and to play, but provides an unrivaled, epic experience of building a civilization from the ground up.  [Update] After "playing" this probably 6 times total, I finally actually finished a game all the way through Age III. A few lessons were learned:  1) This game takes ~8 hours to play with 4 players, including nearly an hour to explain the rules. This is even with players beginning their turn during the end-of-turn production of the prior player and without anyone suffering AP.  2) This game is extremely punishing. You CAN fall behind with a single misplay and then be brutally punished by your opponents (via aggressions and wars), causing you to fall further behind. In a 4-player game, this is more pronounced as, if you fall to last place on the military track, you are vulnerable to up to THREE attacks in a row, which can be devastating...  3) Military is the ONLY route to victory. I mistook this game for being a boardgame version of Sid Meier's Civilization - with alternative routes to victory through Culture, Science, OR Military (since these are the three 'scoring' tracks in the game). NOT SO! You MUST maintain a competitive military THROUGHOUT the game, or at least be working on an economic engine to become the strongest military. The game DOES NOT reward non-military play in any way that would compensate you for the very heavy losses you will take in Aggressions and Wars.  4) You will not even begin to understand how to play this game until at LEAST one FULL play-through all the way to the final scoring.
No veo ninguna diferencia en calidad y sensaciones que te deja la partida con la 1a edición. Juegazo.
mobile version. solid game but not my cup of tea. i don't like how it ends
Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization 1_07 S.42 9
A decent civilisation game. Still perhaps a bit too efficiency and know the cards focused for me, and less strategically and tactically dynamic than I want in a 2P game.  Also the pile on in a 3P game feels like a weakness of the game. The opportunity cost is low, and there's little dynamism created between the player left out of the combat and the two participating, it's very transactional.  The military and tactics system is clunky and odd.
Cannot give this a 10 because of Game Length. It is not an issue for me, but does not allow me to play whenever i want to. Otherwise would be a 10.
Would rate even higher if it wasn't so long.  Amazing civ building game. Every turn leaves you wanting to do one more thing (at least!).
My only 10 rating. Playing digitally, with the expansion beta.
Digital only.  It's hard to avoid comparisons to [b]Nations[/b], which I enjoy very much. TtA is a beautifully designed game. The cards help tell a story of your civilization, and they all make thematic sense.  Wars are abstracted in both TtA and Nations. I don't really have a preference. I suppose, overall, I like the way Nations handles instability of a civilization across all actions, not just wars.   But I think the way TtA handles conflicts between players as a whole puts it a step above Nations. The politics phase and aggression cards are very interesting and push the game toward more player interaction.   The general housekeeping of Nations is less burdensome. TtA really benefits from the digital implementation, where this tedium is handled quickly.   Both require a game or two to get the hang of how they flow. I'd say Nations is a little easier to learn, TtA harder to master, but my opinion could change.   I consider myself nothing more than a novice at TtA, where I've played Nations many more times. I don't know that I'd want both in my collection, but having a physical copy of Nations and digital copy of TtA feels about right. I find the housekeeping of Nations much easier to do and prefer the computer to handle TtA, especially corruption.  Without a doubt, TtA is a challenging and wonderful civ game. As always, given the abstracted combat, something like [b]Clash of Cultures[/b] or [b]Forbidden Stars[/b] is going to be more satisfying for players seeking a little more teeth in their warfare.
I don't think it's a bad game, just too long and dry for my taste; way too much fiddly stuff/upkeep.
This is game that I wouldn't want to play in physical form because the amazing app streamlines and speeds things up so much, but it's really a very nice design with a lot of interesting moving parts.  
Number of cards: 329 @ 50 x 73mm Swan PanAsia sleeve size: 52x74: Premium (SWN-535, 100/pack) - (52 x 74mm) 
Bling Status ✓  Expansions: ✓ Promos: -  Special Edition: - Upgraded Components: - 
A mechanically gorgeous game, but the length and the procedures greatly reduce my enthusiasm to play it. 
Jugado con 3-4 novatos con AP se te puede ir a una duración obscena y peca de repetitivo. En la mitad de tiempo está genial. Imagino que con jugadores experimentados se puede alcanzar ese punto y se convierte en uno de los mejores civis abstractos (sin mapa) que hay. No me gustó que los saqueos me resultaran más dañinos que las guerras. Quizás con más partidas cambie esta perspectiva. No sé qué tal escala. ---------- If played with 3-4 newbies with AP, it can get easy to an obscene length and it becomes pretty repetitive. If you manage to play it within 3 or 4 hours it's great. I imagine that with experienced players you can reach that point and it becomes one of the best abstract civis (without a map) out there. I didn't like somehow the feeling that plunder was more punishing than wars. I may change my mind with more plays under my belt. Better with 3P?
在老師的推薦下嘗試的遊戲，果然很好玩！在bga和steam上都有，我買了steam的版本，還在努力和高級電腦戰鬥中。有點像是世紀帝國的桌遊版。
Andrea Franceschini Giorgio Violi Ivan Sorboni Luca Lusetti Ruben & Anita
If you want a civ builder , Gentes Deluxified is the best.
FIRST IMPRESSION:  Artwork is nicer, but I found it does make some information more difficult to see at first glance.
I want to like Through the Ages more than I do. I want to love it as much as the people on BGG do. But I don't and I can't. There is nothing wrong with the game. In fact, for a CIV it is quite elegant and visually it looks stunning. This is a good, clever and well produced game. Why did I rate it a 7.5?  TTA is the heaviest game I have ever played. It will take you many, many plays to learn the game and familiarize yourself with it. Only then does it become a game to be enjoyed. My wife and I played it twice and both times we didn't even finish the game due to time constraints. This game is long. Only someone who has played this game A LOT can finish agame in 120 mins. This is a four hour game with 2 players and more with three or four.  So this is a heavy game that lasts hours. For this reason my wife doesn't like it and refuses to play it anymore. She feels exhausted after having played it and didn't enjoy the experience. I can't blame her. This is a gamer's game. A niche game for a hardcore crowd. I admire the game, I own the game and I enjoyed playing it. But I can't deny that the game's complexity and length are major marks against it. This game will probably rarely hit the table, which is a shame.
Way toooooo long when playing with four players. No experience with 2 or 3 players so far. Lots of Plays with the App.
A shame that the game takes so long.. Otherwise, one of the best games out there.
It's long and a bit flabby. It feels scripted and it's all pretty abstract. It punishes players once they get behind the curve and it's horribly fiddly, but when you get to the end of a game there's a real sense of satisfaction that you've tamed a beast and you immediately think about how you might try something different next time. Feels like a 70's Avalon Hill game, but a bit more refined. I haven't played with 2, but 3 players seems like the sweet spot for it.
I have not played the old version recently though it is one of my favorite games. My recent play of this edition was a blast.  I cannot tell you off the top of my head all of the changes but the game seems a bit less fiddly and the military aspect seems a bit less brutal.  My favorite civilization board game.
Although I have yet to get my physical copy, online play at BGO confirms that this version has perfect a game that I already thought was practically perfect. In short, Vlaada is a genius, and I will always love to play this game!
-rating digital implementation -rating physical copy: -1,5
An upgrade edition from the original game.  Through the Ages is really a brilliant game design - to simulate the PC game so faithfully just like what a game attempting to simulate the reality. Simply genius.  
Un investissement qui vaut le coup !  Je ne suis pas un habitué des gros jeux mais celui ci m'a intrigué. Je m'y suis investi et ait convaincu 2-3 de mes amis. Je ne regrette rien ! Et eux non plus. Des parties de 4-5 heures lors des dimanches pluvieux qu'on ne voit pas passer. Ce n'est pas trop long pour tout ce qui a à gérer et au contraire c'est une bonne chose. Une partie plus courte n'aurait pas permis de sentir ces 4000 ans d'histoire et d'évolution ou de revenir dans la partie en cas de mauvais départ. Ici, c'est possible ! Rien n'est joué, on s'accroche ! De l'interaction tout le long (pactes, agressions, guerres, événements, colonisations), des choix cruciaux ou on est toujours obligé de choisir d'orienter sa civilisation dans un aspect plutôt qu'un autre ainsi qu'une gestion des ressources toujours ric-rac, mais qui permet tout de même, tant bien que mal, et avec certaines concessions, de développer notre civilisation et de l'amener à la victoire (ou pas loin !).  5 parties à mon actif et j'ai hâte d'y retourner. je recommande vivement ce jeu !
+ Very solid game, with a real feeling of civilization. - Many small rules. - Long.
Im Wandel der Zeitalter ist ein Zivilisationsaufbau Spiel durch und durch. Alles im Spiel wird durch Karten repräsentiert. Wer an der Reihe ist kann so viele Zivilaktionen aufwenden, wie seine derzeitige Regierungskarte aufzeigt. Diese Zivil- bzw. Aktionpunkte können ausgegeben werden um neue Karten aus der allgemeinen Kartenreihe der Tischmitte zu nehmen, außerdem können neue Bürger produziert werden, die Nahrung kosten, aber nötig sind um neue Gebäude zu bauen. Neben den Gebäudekarten, die lediglich die erforschte Technologie des Gebäudes angibt, werden in diesem Spiel nämlich Ressourcensteine auf diese Karten gelegt um anzuzeigen, wie viele Gebäude dieses Typs in der eigenen Zivilisation gebaut wurden. Um Gebäude zu errichten, wird Baumaterial benötigt, das durch Steinbrüche und Co. hergestellt werden kann. Gebäude wie die Oper produzieren hingegen Zufriedenheit, die benötigt wird um gleichzeitig mehr Arbeiter in der Zivilisation zu unterhalten, ohne dass diese einen Aufstand planen und so die Produktionsphase ausfällt. Eine weitere wichtige Ressource ist die Wissenschaft, die wiederum für das Ausspielen neuer Gebäudekarten benötigt wird, womit sich der kleine Kreis allmählich schließt! Weitere Karten, die Wunder und Anführer der Zivilisationen zeigen erweitern diesen Kreis und vervollständigt wird er durch die Militär und Ereigniskarten, die die Spieler am Anfang ihres Zuges, in der Politikphase, ausspielen können. Diese Ereignisse triggern allerdings erst, sobald weitere Ereignisse auf den Stapel gespielt werden, so sollte man sich immer tunlichst merken, was man vor 1-3 Runden auf den Stapel gespielt hat, um vorbereitet zu sein. Das Spiel ist grandios. Es verspricht und hält, was man von einem Zivilisationsspiel erwarten kann. Für mich sind es aber leider zu viele Kartentexte die aufeinander einprasseln. Die Spielerinteraktion ist sehr hoch und man ist gezwungen Militäreinheiten zu bauen um nicht ständig von den anderen Zivilisationen überfallen zu werden. Ein fröhlicher Aufbau der eigenen Auslage ist daher nur begrenzt möglich. Normalerweise mag ich spiele mit hoher Interaktion. Sind aber viele Karten mit vielen Kartentexten im Spiel, von denen ich mir teilweise sogar die eigenen merken muss (Events), dann steige ich langsam aus. Schade, denn das Spiel ist sehr gut gemacht und bietet so viele verschiedene Herangehensweisen, darum war ich auch schon immer davon fasziniert... aber es überfordert mich scheinbar am Ende doch!
10 Rating is assuming the expansion content is being used, otherwise the base game gets an 8
A brilliant design by Vlaada - a mapless civ game that really does provide a sense of historical, cultural and technological advancement through the ages. This updated, heavy card game is both a challenging and rewarding experience.  (previous comment for its predecessor) There's quite a balancing act happening here in this civ game as one gathers resources while avoiding penalizing shortages. The abstraction of civ game play elements is ingenious. Vlaada has outdone himself.
Truly fantastic game that I got as a 21st present, plays super well. Played it once on Tabletop Simulator before playing it in real life and it's safe to say that I'm 100% sure I played most of the game wrong. Therefore, this time round, the game took much longer than it did on TTS: from one hour online to two hours for a 2-player game. Now, this is the absolute maximum I could see a two player game going, and it took even longer with the absurd setup it needed and learning both the mechanics AND the rules at the start, because constantly throughout the game we were checking up rules, taking back moves to be valid, etc.   However, with this said, it played relatively quickly once we got into the groove of the game, knowing what we could do and probably what we should do. Euros in general just take ages to play: look at Agricola, an absurdly long game with an absurdly long set up time that can take up to an hour for two players but is on the Mount Rushmore of Worker Placement games. You know what else is on it? Puerto Rico, Terra Mystica, and this game. Yes, with all the negatives about getting into this game, you can clearly see why this game is so well received. Every move has a lasting impact on the game, and there are multiple facets of the game to focus on. Building Wonders, urban buildings, farm/mine improvements; adopting new technologies; working current buildings or farms and mines to get improvements... there's a whole lot of choice and not enough resources to do everything.  This game brings a tightness, intensity, competitiveness and strategy that wasn't matched by anything since I first played Agricola. The game that could come close is Food Chain Magnate, but there wasn't that tightness in FCM since you had choices galore, you just were always making the wrong one. In New TTA, you really need to cover as many bases but don't try to be too well rounded or you become a jack of all trades, master of none. Sound familiar? (Just try to be safe and cover all bases in Agricola). I compare it to Agricola because Agricola is a fantastic game, and comparing it to Agricola in a serious tone is an accomplishment of itself. I'm not sure if it's better than Agricola, but I've played it twice and Agricola closer to a hundred times than this game. We'll see in a few more games. But there's no reason why this game won't be an instant classic and continual entrant in my Top 5. It has all the things I love about a game in spades. Well done Chvatil, another masterpiece.
The classic board game Through the Ages, which revolves around the building of civilizations, is getting even better! This new version with beautiful new artwork offers some subtle adjustments to the well-known playing mechanism and the cards, making the game even better in balance. A New Story of Civlization starts now!
I have only played it twice since this post. But i would have liked more ways to gain VP when the game is over. Also better boards atleast the player board with indentation for easier placement of markers.
I love this game, the only downside is it can take a very long specially when playing the full thing. I would be a 9 but I'm taking a point out for the horrible player boards where everything is loose.
The game is long, regardless of experience, and can feel a bit solitaire at times despite being a game about developing civilizations. That being said, I do find enjoyment during my plays. The real problem is that Through the Ages is better suited as a digital game as the app offers a much better experience handling all the tedious upkeep the game presents.
This is a complex game and very well thought out.  I "kinda" like it, like the design, but it's almost too complex for it's own good.  Building up your civilization takes careful planning to not overextend yourself and that takes a bit of the fun out of it for me because setbacks are disastrous and once you fall behind you REALLY fall behind from which there is zero chance for recovery.  Therefore, if I fall behind I'm frustrated.  If my opponent falls behind I take pity on them and want to play a different game.  One of the other sad aspects is the order that things come out in the card row.  There are too few of the critical cards such as "Iron" or "Irrigation".  If they come out too early you are hurt trying to hold them in your inventory, but if they come out too late you can't put them to use.  Ditto for age II cards that you need to bump up your science, happiness, and culture.  If you can't grab them at low cost when it's your turn, or if you can't grab them at all then it's game over, and that's especially true for government cards.    The engine improvements are almost too minor in the early game to be worth your actions sometimes (or they cause disastrous corruption/consumption/unhappiness), and in the late game they are impossible to buy/play/build if you don't have a super strong engine going, which creates a catch-22 for catching up and/or overtaking your opponent, and you almost can't follow what game they're trying to play because you're so bewildered just trying to keep track of your own!  And good luck with colonies, lol.  If I'm going to play a game for 2+ hours I'd rather play Terraforming Mars or Castles of Burgundy.  But hey, at least this isn't as awful as Arkham (barf) Horror.  :::Owned by friends, but I play online as well (takes a lot of the tediousness out of it).
New and improved version of the previous TFA game. Excellent civ style game with great mechanics and rewarding play. The old version suffered from terribly overpowered military strategies and this once still does, although quite not so bad. You can become the target of some terrible decimation of your civilization if you do not pay attention to your military. And once you do, you become an even easier target for future turns, ouch!
I guess considering the mobile version, this is the board game that I played the most so far - and I still suck! Definitely one of my favourites, and scratches the itch for civilization games.  I cannot see where it would fit without breaking everything that I like, but I miss having some miniatures around and a map.
App  I've only played this digitally.  I can't imagine playing it with all of the little pieces to remember.  Great civilization-building game.
Played as a 4 player game. Only got to the end of age 2 and it took over 4 hours!! Good game, but don’t know how you’d finish in 2nhours.
My favoriate board game. I've played hundreds of games. Only reason I wouldn't give it a 10 is because it needs better player boards to control your cubes, and that the game is (very) slightly too biased towards military.
I really like the theme, and the gameplay looks like a medium deep resource gathering/managing euro
Great game, second edition greatly improved in game rules and graphic.
Jeu de stratégie : Développement & Construction   Dévelopez une civiilsation en fonction de vos cartes en main et de vos actions disponibles sans jamais négliger un aspect de votre dévelopement. Un jeu complexe mais d'une richesse stratégique rare.  Mots clés : Points d'action, Affrontement, Gestion de main Durée : 140 min Nb de joueurs : 2 à 4 joueurs
“simple” mechanics that cover a very complex development game. Every single rule is very well thought of and supports simulating the world.
Great game with interesting mechanics and the most well laid-out rulebook I have ever experienced. An engine builder that always has something that feels like it might destroy your whole engine, which keeps a wonderful tension throughout the game. However, it is hard to play too often due to the intense time commitment (at least 3 hours and was a lot more in the first few plays)
Wish it were less scary for new players. Other than that is an excellent game.
Did not keep this one although it is still kind of fun. The problem is that if I'm going to play a game for 4+ hours, it has to be an epic experience. I can deal with eurogames, but the 2 hour mark would probably be the max I'd be willing to go for something like this. I'd rather play a civ game on the computer than in a board game format. The phone app is much more enjoyable since it takes care of the accounting and is very well programmed. I put the app at an 8, but the boardgame remains a 7 because of how much longer it takes because of the accounting.
My husband and son LOVE this game. I'm not an avid gamer, but like to play games with them. I really like this game most of the time. It takes us usually a few hours over a few days to play. I'm not a huge fan of being destroyed by someone else's military. I tend to like to build my civilization and wish to be left alone. My son loves to try and destroy everyone. My husband takes a middle road approach, and has won every time we have played this game.
Initial Impressions of Short Game Only: I've never played the Civ video games, but from what I do know about them I can see how this was designed to be Civ the card game. It has a lot less abstraction of non-combat and non-growth aspects of civilization that a lot of other civ-themed games have, such as maintaining "happiness" and needing to feed your people. Through the Ages has a lot of good things going for it, but honestly I think I would rather play Clash of Cultures or Imperial Settlers most of the time.  Compared to Clash of Cultures, they are of similar length, but Clash of Cultures has a map aspect, has a big plus of unique powers (at least with the expansion),  and has tech "fields". Now, you will start differentiating pretty early in Through the Ages, but the problem is outside of your leader you mostly just get bonuses in certain stats, rather than having abilities that feel completely different from others. Such differentiating stat boosts are important, but I want to have turns where I feel like doing something cool, not turns where I feel like I am doing more of the same. I also would guess Through the Ages has more tactical depth since what you do each turn depends a lot of what cards become available for cheap while still having strategic depth depending on what resources you produce the most of making it easier to get certain things, but I just love the strategic tech fields of Clash of Cultures.  Compared to Imperial Settlers I think Through the Ages is a much better designed game. After all, Through the Ages actually has a fairly decent level of interaction with the military level mechanic, whereas Imperial Settlers 80% of the time it feels like I am just playing multiplayer solitaire tableau building, with what feels like a tacked on raze mechanic to add interaction. This threat of my opponent suddenly boosting their military on a turn means I am actually paying attention to what my opponent is doing. The tableau building of Imperial Settlers also is too much and makes it feel like you aren't really playing a civi game. However, again, Imperial Settlers just has effects that feel more special, and it plays much, much quicker so when I do just want that tableau building feel I'd rather play it over Through the Ages.  I think I understand why this game is considered best with 3. In the 2 player game I played, a lot of the cards were burned in the buy row. Now, cards would probably also cycle as quickly with more players despite less cards getting auto-burned each turn, but it would feel like cards are being removed because other people were considering denying you the benefit of those cards, rather than because of just where those cards ended up. However, there is quite a bit of downtime when it is not your turn, so I feel like 4 player games might drag.  EDIT: Played this again, and now I feel like it's like It's a Wonderful World, but both 5x more complex and longer. However, while the level of abstraction and engine building is fine for It's a Wonderful World, it feels too long in Through the Ages, even if TTA is in fact a little bit more thematic and having more unique powers. Compared to Imperial Settlers, while TTA's powers are more abstract, there are also a lot of strong effects in the events deck that you have to watch out for, that therefore means you might need to metagame to play optimally. Most of them basically level the playing field a bit and punish whoever has least military/hurt whoever has most, so it isn't arbitrary, but there are others such as Rats that can catch you off guard. Also, maybe I was just soured by not figuring out how to develop an engine properly, but it felt like that I was out of the running 2/3 of the way of the game, yet still had to play another hour to finish it up, and the decisions and what I built at the end didn't give enough fun to make up for the downside of winning being a lost cause.  EDIT 2: The tableau building in this game is fun, the management of enough resource cubes and population cubes and unhappiness and worrying about negative events and other military-related stuff is not.
Now You Only Need to Play 10 Times Before Being Slightly Competent: The Game.
It's a great game, though I'm still a bit bothered by how only chances to gain some technologies can fly by and be lost forever. It would be nice if they eventually went into some kind of pile of commonly known techs, where you could pick them from by paying extra actions or something.  The expansion does a good job of mitigating most of the problems that the game has, and with it I'd rate it at 10/10.
[microbadge=5]  There's some really nice changes in the new edition. All of the changes to conflict (aggressions and war) are strict improvements. Sacrificing troops for bonus strength was always a fiddly and potentially confusing situation, with either too much benefit or too little benefit. Additionally, being able to use face-down military cards as generic +1 defense against aggressions is a great design choice. Other minor improvements include changing the order of the upkeep process, which minimizes logistical confusion, and creating a common tactics area, which minimizes the randomness of blind non-draftable card draws.  On the other hand, having played through the new art, I still don't like it. The player and general board layouts are less intuitive, and significantly less compact than the original. I also dislike any reprint that moves from wooden bits to plastic bits (like the FFG printing of T&E).
A killer Civ game.  Optimization and high interaction.  Engine building.  Combos.  Card game with hand management.  Brilliant.  I am late to the party on this one, but I see now why it has been loved these many years.  Playing mostly on Android OS/Google Play.  Found a hardcopy via trade for 1944: Race to the Rhine.  Boxed version now a G4GG lottery giveaway.  Giveaway May 2021 G4GG.
Very good game, not that heavy but with a lot of decisions and possibilities. Each game is different. BUT the game is too long - I dont mind long games but this one with 4 players is longer than Twilight Imperium with 6 players. I played this several times and couldn't finish once because after 5+ hours everyone was exhausted with headache. Interactions are minimal, you just need to control military of your opponents so you won't be destroyed. And yes you can be destroyed by opponents and there is no a comeback mechanism - you just need to wait another 3+ hours and you can't catch up. Game not for everyone.
My wife insists on playing without the military/diplomacy features, so for me the game has limited replayability.  We've played 10 games now, and each stripped-down match has taken more than 5 hours.
Dense and phenomenal.  Such a dynamic game in basically every way.  The downtime between turns is the only real complaint here.  To play this is to put yourself in the hands of a master - this is Vlaada's best game that I have played.
An excellent facelift for the old favorite. Recommended over original.
Very good game, the only thing on the downside is that the different eras are too short.
Un gioco di civilizzazione della durata di aleno 3-4 ore. Spendendo i propri cubi azioni è possibile acquisire nuove carte con cui cambiarne la forma di governo per ottenere più azioni, costruire edifici produttivi e comuni, schierare truppe, assoldare dei leader, migliorare edifici ecc.. Ogni volta che termina un mazzo Era, lo si rimpiazza con quello dell'era successiva che avrà edifici migliori, truppe più potenti ecc.. Lo scopo del gioco è prevalere sulle altre cività facendo punti militarmente, culturalmente e tecnologicamente.
It's a very very good game, ma it is too long. I was able to play it only twice. Much better the android app: at least everything can be automated, is automated.
The good part about this game is the artwork (amazing), the card drafting mechanic which keeps the game fresh, and the way everything is organized. As a history graduate and a social studies teacher, I LOVE the characters and what they do.   My biggest complaint is the length of the game. I don't usually intend to spend 6 plus hours playing a card drafting game. I might expect that with TI3 or something wih moveable pieces. Since you take turns to do everything instead of one action, there's a lot of downtime between turns. And by a lot I mean wwwaaaayyyyy too much.   Now for my own personal qualm, and this gave me an anurism during gameplay. Normally in a civ game you build wonders: the pyramids of Giza, the Collossus of Rhodes, Mouth Rushmore, etc. These are usually huge pieces of history that last THROUGH THE AGES (hence the name). So imagine my rage when next to these amazing advancements I find the technological wonder, the BRILLIANT and amazing important discovery of FAST FOOD CHAINS!!!??? The history major in me screamed and a little piece of me died on the inside when I saw that. Yes that's right folks, right next to the Sistine Chapel we have... burger king.   That aside I love to end on good notes. The game overall is fun if you don't mind waiting for your turn to come up and if you have a dedicated group of friends that have a "day" set aside. You'll love all the historical references... well just about most of them in my case.
great civilization,card drafting,engine building game
In spite of it's long play time, I get lost in the game and time just flies.  There's so much to consider and really not much in the way of rules.  And though it's abstracted in that it's card driven and there's no physical map (like my old favourite [b][thing=71][/thing][/b]), it gives the sense of building something.   
Good game, enjoy history and have fun with it's mechanichs.
First civ-style board game i've ever played and not particularly a fan of civ video games. Love the thematic complexity, elegant mechanics, and large variety of viable strategies.
New edition of one of the best games ever designed.  BUILD YOUR CIVILIZATION the Vlaaaaadaaaaa way.  
Once again, Mr. Chvatil knocks it out of the park. The mechanics are as tight as they are smooth and intuitive. A real pleasure to play. Intense and exciting for the entire six hours it takes to play a 4 player game.
Sinverey i have great expectations but they are not mantained. The game is too long and change of eras doesn't add something to the gameplay that remain the same.  I am quite boring at the end.
There is a brilliant game in here, if you are willing to spend the 4+ hours it takes to play it with more than 2 players.
Described as a heavy-weight engine builder. Would probably play it, but way too much "take that" for me to want to own it.
++ beautiful reskin, bringing life into the graphically dull first version ++ all leaders actually useful now
Quiero jugar antes de comprarlo. :star::nostar::nostar:
https://ludicoimpenitente.com/2018/01/29/through-the-ages-la-civilizzazione-giocata-in-tempo-reale/
Metto sei solo per il fatto che non riesco a giocarlo. Fatta una partita diciamo una.... ed abbandonato. Spero di proporlo ma la lunghezza dei tempi non gioca a suo favore. per ora Gennaio 2019 cerchiamo altro genere di titoli. Peccato.Aggiornamento Estate 2020, come vedesi dal numero di partite qualcosa abbiamo fatto, gioco bello, ma per il mio gruppo non il capolavoro inarrivabile che si cita nei gruppi giochi. Un gioco lunghissimo e non per pensatori.
([url=www.boardgamebliss.com]Boardgamebliss.com[/url], 2018-12-04)  TTA is a nice civilization game that can play well with 2 players. I've only played a demo game of 2 ages but it clearly is a great game that is worth playing.  (Sold on 2023-08-01)
There is just too much luck in this for me: Say you fall back on military through bad luck (no military cards available on your turn, all taken by the other players), then through more bad luck your opponents draw aggression cards and hit you, e.g. killing population. Now you need to recover both on population, happy faces (since the dead pop pushed you over the limit), and military.   That's not a game I want to play for 4 hours!
a good travel thru history and i want this revamp version, the inside economy its great, but a bit punishing if you are not eurogame prepared.
This is an absolutely amazing game to play! Can be quite long, but worth every second!
This game just represents my ideal boardgame: engine building, cards, workers placement, strategy, combos. Can’t wait for the announced expansion :D
Was 8.5. Downgraded to 8 because of room for heavy AP and totally not a 4 player game. Upped to 8.5 again after playing 4 player with the right group
Excellent heavy euro game, masterfully player interactions with great mechanics.
While this game is quite good i would prefer not to play in person because of all the upkeep, which takes quite a while.
I play the app... now is a must to have the real staff
Het spel voelt als een klassieker maar we hebben het tot 2x toe niet kunnen uitspelen. Ten eerste is de instapdrempel vrij groot en ten tweede is de wachttijd bij meerdere spelers echt wel héél groot. Ik wil het nog een kans geven.
Excellent game... especially with the Leaders and Wonders expansion!  Always want to play... have to make a day of it, though.  ;)  Wish someone made a cube holder overlay that was ONLY on the bottom of the player boards, though.  ;)
https://thethoughtfulgamer.com/2022/06/07/through-the-ages-review/
Always will want to play. Is it perfect? No, but I will still always want to play.
Love this game. It took me a while to get into it but when I got it I really enjoyed it. It pretty complex which makes it fun when devising strategies.
Build up your civilization in this 2 hours per player(!) game. Clever mechanics. Lots of strategic and tactical decisions to make. My only complaint is the component quality. Would've paid a bit more for sturdier player boards that could actually hold cubes in place.
Igual que la edición anterior pero con sutiles mejoras. Nota evidente, ya que la experiencia de juego no se resiente lo más mínimo.
Mega dobra gra przy której trzeba się nieźle zastanowić
Dense, thinky, unforgiving, high down-time. Still amazing!   16/11/16 // Genius level design. Superb balance of tactical vs strategic planning. Gets better with experience.
It's definitely an improvement over the - already excellent - original.
Is my favorite game! Every turn is an agony because you need more of everything. But the challenge is a real pleasure!
REally impressive. Not one I feel compelled to play constantly, but certainly an experience I want regularly.
Very deep game. The rules are quite complex, which makes it really unfortunate that the rulebook(s) are organized terribly for learning and reference.   That being said, if you have 4-5 hours to devote to a heavy game, this is one we keep taking off the shelf.   The base game suffers from a few balance issues and never-draw cards, and it can be hard to recover when other players pick on you with blocking draws and military aggressions. That being said, the expansion adds a lot of viable strategic paths and fixes one of the key issues of the base game (yellow cubes), so definitely check that out if you’re interested.   Would definitely recommend for cardboard fans. It has its issues, but then again so do supercars.
Enjoyed this.  A nice balancing act to get everything to work in your favour.
perfect balance between economy, development and war
felt like you were really going through each age.  So many different mechanics and interactions that worked well.    its an interesting mix of complex and straight foreword rules
The best game in the world... yup, even better than all those galaxy games. Essentially it is a card drafting game. However, you are building a civilization, so resource management is huge. The game is very long (an hour per player, more if you are learning) and there is a steep learning curve. Plays best at 4 players and great at 3.
I really think it's a well designed and system.  The first few times I played I had a good time.  Now that I understand the paths of victory it seems extremely boring.  I'm just pushing numbers, its tense with no sense of satisfaction. I either win or luck out on card flop. The worse part is the as you go through the ages the gameplay is exactly the same, only working with bigger numbers. Not fun.
TTA is a landmark design and this is an improved version. One of those games that even if you don't like it yourself you should know to appreciate its genius.
Bon gros jeu de placement d'ouvriers et de développement.
7 - usually willing to play  Nice civilisation game that I enjoy playing from times to times, although making errors can make you fall on a downward spiral if the opponents keep continuously targeting you whilst you're weak :(
Un supor de juego. Mejor jugar con la aplicación. Es horrible jugarlo en mesa. Jamás jugarlo en físico.
Far more frustrating than fun. Mechanics of resource management tedious. Would not play physical version again.   Own digital version.
Sehr komplex, sehr schwierig zu erklären und dauert bei den ersten Lernpartien locker 5 Stunden. Das Spiel gibt es als App, welche einem vieles der "Arbeit" abnimmt. Da kriegt man ein Spiel schon in etwas über einer Stunde hin. In der App Version bekommt through the ages von mir 8 Punkte. Als Brettspiel wegen der genannten Kritik leider nur 6. Da muss man schon Bock drauf haben.
A brilliant game that is completely let down by setup and component management. After having played the rather beautiful app, I got rid of my copy and am unlikely to be convinced to play the board version again.  This is Vlada Chvatil's magnum opus for a reason. So much forward planning, so much strategy and yet so much room for tactical maneuvering. There are no maps, no minis and yet it so brilliantly captures  civilization building so well. Would have been a perfect 10 were it not such a chore to bring to the table.
For advanced but easy to understand. However hard to remember all the bonus Gra dla zaawansowanych, ale po przeczytaniu podręcznika (lub obejrzeniu filmów na youtube) łatwo ogarnąć zasady., Gorzej z zapamiętaniem wszystkich swoich umiejętności i bonusów z Liderów, Cudów Świata itp.
Heavy economic game that features one of my favorite mechanics (card drafting) and one of my favorite themes (Civilization building).  There are multiple paths to victory, and the winning strategy is determined by what cards come up in what order.   The military system is probably the weakest aspect of the game, but it is nice to be able to interact with the other players directly, something that is completely missing from most Eurogames.
Iconic game about civilization. Might take too long for what it is though, probably better to try a digital version first.
I own the boardgame and the iOS app. I've only played the app up to this point.
Awesome game but requires to much time commitment. Can't really imagine to spend whole day playing a board game
This is certainly one of the best civilization games, but I think I prefer Civilization more than this... I don’t think I would ever purchase the physical version of this game, cause I can’t imagine it ever hitting the table - I would rather play the electronic version that handles the tedious tasks smoothly without the clunkiness.
I love this game although it's not a fit with the other players in my gaming group which is why it doesnt get played. It's cut throat and brutal. If you screw up or get left behind, you're going to lose while the other players are taking advantage of you. I can accept I screwed up and it makes me want to get better or learn from the players that are beating me. For other people, getting pummeled for 3 hours with no hope in sight just isn't fun and I get that. With that being said, I love how tight the game is. There's so many things you feel like you need to do but there's just no time to do it all. It makes you really think about how to maximize every action which I love.   The app is one of the best board gaming apps around.
I would play this anytime with anyone, any player count, on any platform. The new changes make it more streamlines and elegant, while allowing for a wider variety of realistic paths to victory. My favourite game of all time, that gives me everything I want in a civ game other than map exploration, but it does the rest so well that I don't miss it, or the extra time it would add.
dużo zasad a sama rozgrywka nie każdemu przypadnie do gustu
7.5 - May 2019 - 10 Plays:  I've only played the iOS app.  I enjoy playing the game quite a bit, but I haven't yet really figured out how to play anything approaching well.
Definately our top game at home right now! The game is extremely beautiful.
Great Boardgame with exceptional depth. With the App implementation even better, because you can learn strategies in much shorter depth with no setup time. Very deep experience that rewards multiple plays - in the best case with a non-changing group, so each one can grow with the game.
Ruined by warfare; if one player goes high military everyone has to keep up or risk being put out of contention by one war. Leads to picking on the weakest player. Card drafting means you have little choice and mostly have to play whatever is available. Tightness of actions and resources (a la Agricola_ means you will usually have to settle for what you can do vs what you'd like to do. Which means your strategy is mostly determined by other players' military and the cards that happen to be available to you.
If you play it with friends who likes long and hard board games, there could be memorable moments. 
Buen juego, complejo pero transmite la idea de civilización. Difícil sacar a mesa.
Played with 2 and 3 players. Preferred 2 player game.Excellent game and very immersive. I wouldn't want to play with 4 players due to length of downtime.
Fiddly and crashed badly when I tried to introduce it... I now have the steam pc version and that is probably what I will play now.
I like this one very much. The biggest problem for me is the win condition. Culture!? Really? So my enormous army cannot do anything to my pathetic opponent, just because I was unlucky to not fetch any war card.
Nieoficjalny wariant solo;  ----------  Dice Tower, Tom Vasel's Top 100 Games of All Time 2016, #20; Dice Tower, Tom Vasel's Top 100 Games of All Time 2017, #85; Dice Tower, Eric Summerer's Top 100 Games of All Time 2017, #9; Dice Tower, People's Choice Top 100 Games of All Time 2017, #50;  GameTrollTV, Najlepsza 50 Gier 2017 według graczy, #3;
Too much downtime, the author could have made a much nicer and better game with a few rule changes
Won once, in third game (without wars and agressions)
Great great great game !  In my opinion the best game of civilization. 
Quite long to teach, so not easy to arrange game tables with this game. Beside this, the best civ-emulation game, ever.
It takes time to learn rules and all details of TtA but when you get used to them you will love it. Well, I do.
Yummy it is so good. If you like too play boardgames on a tablet the app is really good.
Elke keer weer even wennen maar vervolgens weer genieten. Altijd te weinig acties uit kunnen voeren voor wat je eigenlijk wil en de vraag ga ik voor cultuur of voor een grote militaire kracht.
+ New Leaders and Wonders expansion  + iOS (base game)
improved version of tta, more balanced ;-) but quality of components is lower ;-( still, it is the best CIV game out there..
Downtime in the endgame is very bad. Awesome game though, downtime is totally worth it!
Excellent game with almost endless replayability. Not too difficult to learn and so many possibilities and nuances to tactics and strategies for the more experienced player. Definitely feels like TS where one only becomes decent at the game after perhaps the 30th-50th playthrough, and even then there is so much more you can learn. Also many improvements to older version...  I like how normal cards can be used for 1 defensive bonus as well as military all round not being as powerful with necessary nerfs to Napoleon as well as common tactics area being introduced.
I have played the mobile version of this extensively -- Even playing against a computer I find the downtime considerable. I think this is a fun but I have no desire to take 2 hours to play it.
Do not play this without the app. The game is not worth its lengthy playtime. 
4.4 complexity 2-4 p 120 mins Auction bidding Card drafting Publisher: Czech Games Edition
Slight improvement making it even better. Still doesn't fix the tactics problem though but better card balance is sweet. 
The best civilization game in existence. Nothing else even comes close. Played a multitude of times - this masterpiece never gets tiresome. If you are serious about board games, or perhaps wondering if there is one that every afficionado should possess - it is this one. 
This feels like the most complex game Ive been playing so far. The AI in the app is pretty good.
Such an exciting journey through time. Not as hard as it was rated, it gets clear after one session.
doskovú som ešte nehral, tá na androide je OK - žiaľ , pretože doskoku sa vlastne ani nechce vyťahovať...  (doskovku chcem odstrániť zo zbierky)
The iOS app is one of the best I've ever played; speeds up what can be a longish board game. Not a huge fan of the board game but will play online .
Score based on only 1 play. But I know I am only gonna like this better.
Pros: -Variety -Multiple paths to victory -Tough decisions -Watch your empire grow -Military progression is very well done  Cons: -Long, very long (1 hr per player) -With many plays the variety is not a great as initially thought
6h long game, yet nothing changes during the playthrough except for some numbers. A bit disappointed.
Having played flawed Euro-Civs like Tapestry made me appreciate this even more. Upped to a 9. --  Normally I have huge problems with these kind of brutal efficiency puzzles, of which this is an examplary specimen. But it is a Vlaada game, so whole is more than the sum of the parts. On the the one hand, this is a strangly flavorless accounting class, where you are trying to balance the production of harps with the production of rocks and light bulbs, all the while anticipating the desparately needed Level II mining technology coming down the card river.  On the other hand, the whole thing is so tighly woven and so cleverly constructed that it just pulls me in. The downside remains of always feeling pushed from behind and rushed to pick up this building or get that tech card built, while keeping up with the Joneses in military strenght. No time to smell the flowers!  Despite being a progenitor of the current slew of tracks-on-tracks Euros there is still an austerity and parsimony in this design, which should be able to also draw classic Eurogamers in.  However, it is long. Mage Knight long. The game is one of the few multiplayer games providing rules around resigning, which tells you everything you need to know about balance and catch-up mechanisms. In this regard it reminded me of a Splotter title.
The main problem I have with the game is the war and aggression.  I am all for attacking, but there is a bit of "ruin the game" aspect of it for the person that loses on some of the cards (especially the one that allows 2 buildings to be destroyed).  I much prefer Nations mechanic.  Otherwise, a great game.
It fixes nicely the issues Through The Ages had to make it balanced.
Playing it on app. and its fantastic! Top rating of this game is well deserved.
Overly complicated and fiddly, with many things to remember, yet lacking of deep and options/building/choices computer version provides. Also too long and tiresome.
Good art and excellent game play. Wouldn't mind a faster game. It doesn't fit an evening really.
I’m still learning to play this game, but i have to say it’s excellent brainburner. There is no catch up mechanism when you do something wrong but I think thats part of it. Thematically excellent game with great mechanics which will get bezter with each play. UPDATE: going for 10 now, game become better and better.
Grandissimo gioco, ma che si può gustare solo con determinati amici. Un gioco non per tutti.
Really? Really? Let's see, *WAY* too long, crazy bland, textbook art, that is nothing more than a cube-pusher. If I could sum it up in one word, I'd say:  T-E-D-I-O-U-S
Cards are not very balanced. If you don't get resources upgrades soon, you're out
5 / 5 - Great  Fiddly when played in real life but my, what a brilliant mash-up of optimisation and one-upmanship against fellow players. The conveyor belt of cards cranks up the tension on every turn, as well as ensuring you can never rest on a static approach to strategy.
Manages to distill the essence of a civilization game into a cardgame. I've only played the basic version, but that's already very good.
I rate it a 6 after two 3-player games. I liked it at first, but I find it too slow and too multi-solo. I´m sure it becomes quicker after ten plays, but I´m not willing to invest the time. Also I find the events too punishing, though I haven´t been punished by them myself. And I don´t feel like I´m building a civilization.
One of the old classic Civ-games in a revised edition. 
Very complex game. But once You really get into it, You'll enjoy it! Really like this game.
Amazing game and the app is just awesome to play with it :)
It is a really good cube-management game, and it totally felt like playing Civ on a pc for me! I gave it a 6 because my time is really precious to me and it took a lot of it when first we played it. Maybe next time things will go a bit smoother.
A well-ballanced, very long strategic game, requiring a planned limited resource management, allowing lots of different gameplay strategies. Highly recommended for heavy gamers. Also a really low-priced heavy game for the content and replayability it packs.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=veUW0Ut58gU  #1 on strategic planning
Perfect simulation of civilization development with simple rules but … not for the boardgame. It’s loooooooong, boring and exhausting. The weight to randomness ratio is very bad. I was so tired in the middle of the second era that I could do anything to end up the game there. Of course I could use the magic action „Quit the game” but I didn’t want to spoil the game of the others. BTW: Thanks for the designer that he has mercifully forseen such a possibility. The idea to serve 10 cards on supply track and have the players read them all in their turn (not earlier because supply changes frequently) is crazy and is what makes this game so boring due to huge downtime and personally for me unplayable. +1 point for really perfect simulation of civilization development.
First at all, excuse me for my bad english, and then... It is a really good civilization game, it deserves a 8,5 at least, BUT, for me, it´s frustrating, because one player can be "farmed" by the others, and you can realize,  when you have been playing for 3 hours and there is 1 hour remaining at least,  that your strategy was wrong and you can´t win. The game counts with an option to leave it before it´s finished, but that feeling is really awful and you have to wait the others players to finish and play other game. Also, the rulebook is complex and there are many rules to remember while playing. In summary, I feel frustrated while playing and I want to finish quickly (what won´t happen), or quit.
I have not played this in a long time, but it is a very interesting game. Unforgiving if you play with an experienced player, maybe a bit too unforgiving the its length.
Great game, but so much bookkeeping. Suggest playing the app where all of that is automated.
Too fiddly and too much downtime to be played quickly. Too shallow and lackluster to be player so long. I understand where people find deep possibility of advancement however it's too linear and straightforward (simple increase of effectiveness of various elements without any real gamechanging modifications). Its much better suited for quick matches in PC application. But since it's a rating of boardgame and not it's computer version that's why my rating is so low. There are simply better experiences to be gained in 4-6 hour timespan with other boardgames.
Through the Ages is my favourite game. At its heart an engine builder, it retains enough interactivity to keep you on your toes (with semi-random events and the constant threat of military aggression). It quite possibly has the best event mechanic in all board games. TTA embodies the perfect balance between strategy (what's your engine gonna be?) and tactics (which cards come out when?). The only downside is the tedious upkeep and the relatively long turns, which makes this a hard game to get to the table.
Significant improvement over the original, which is a feat in and of itself.   
Nie lubię gier cywilizacyjnych, aczkolwiek ta jest chyba jedyną, do której mógłbym zasiąść  + dość proste, logiczne i przejrzyste reguły jak na ten stopień komplikacji + dobrze działająca mechanika + ładnie odwzorowany postęp czasu, technologii, co nadaje klimatu +/- bardzo długa  -losowe wydarzenia, której najczęściej mocno biją w gracza najsłabszego, co tylko dobija gracza najmniej rozwiniętego -koszmarny downtime przy 4 graczach - nie do końca przekonuje mnie system walk, w których nie ponosimy strat w jednostkach  - losowo wychodzące karty na tor (komuś może trafić się coś fajniejszego, a komuś totalny crap)
excellent adventure, worth thousands of time of play
Persönlich ein durchschnittliches Spiel. Man merkt schon das es ein Neuaufguss eines alten Spielkonzeptes ist. War bestimmt mal ein tolles Spiel, heute muss man aber sagen, das wenn man es ein paar mal gespielt hat, leider nicht mehr viel überraschendes passiert. Dafür ist die Spielzeit einfach sehr lang und sehr wenig Interaktion untereinander.
great strategy game and fun. Can be played without war :)
[c][b]Mes critères et leur pondération[/b] Plaisir de jouer (x15)          : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star: Profondeur du Jeu (x15)         : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star: Présence du thème (x10)         : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star: Minimisation chance (x10)       : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: Durée des parties (x10)         : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star: Rejouabilité (x8)               : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star: Qualité des matériaux (x5)      : :star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: Interactions entre joueurs (x2) : :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: Clarté des règles (x1)          : :star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: [b]Note de synthèse[/b]                : 9,51 [/c] Merveilleux jeu de gestion de ressources et de cartes. Tous les mécanismes sont intimement liés les uns aux autres et il convient de soigneusement planifier ses actions faute de quoi c'est le désastre assuré. De plus les guerres et autres conflits obligent à suivre de près les actions des autres joueurs sinon on perdra à la guerre ce qu'on a gagné par ses actions civiles. Bref, deux à trois heures de bonheur sur table. Sans compter le temps d'explication des règles qui est incompressible et loong ... Forte marge de progression dans les premiers jeux - on est rapidement dans une impasse. L'application mobile est très bien faite mais le mécanisme de déplacement des ressources n'est pas graphiquement détaillé et il faut mieux jouer avec le version physique du jeu pour se familiariser aux différents mécanismes.
too long. Period. Terraforming Mars dethrones this one. which is in itself not my thing
I enjoy the process of playing this game.  I'm not as sure from a competitive standpoint..., owing mainly to the ability of one player (regardless of which it is) to develop resources at a rate greater than another based essentially on the luck of the draw as cards become available). I'd already own this game if the box was a standard size - the 12.4" for example (it could be thicker to accommodate the added components, like Orleans Dlx).    I really don't mind the length as it takes time to implement strategies and I use the down time to plan my next actions so it moves along pretty quickly.  With regard to the run-away leader issue, it does seem you can know what to do but just be unable to do it - even if you're willing to adjust your strategy.  You also may need to play a relatively aggressive game as not doing so will disadvantage your relative position.  One note - the icons are not clear as to when you increase your rate of earning points vs earning points directly on a few of the tracks.
Own digital version. We'll designed, but it feels too complex at times which loses some of the enjoyment of the game
[b]Condition:[/b] New in Shrink Wrap. [b]Language:[/b] English [b]Publisher:[/b] Czech Games Edition, Eagle-Gryphon Games [b]Shipping:[/b] Free Shipping tothe continental continental USA
Largely an improvement over an already excellent original.
A game with more than 3 hours gameplay and too many flows. Unique fun experience. I have it in my top 10 but can't rate it to 10 with all these balance issues.
One of my favorite games. Pretty much everything I would expect from a civilization game. It might be just a little bit shorter (I used to be an AP prone player but am working on it).
Играл только в версию на ПК. Они там топовая, после нее я даже не взгляну на настольную, слишком много фидлинга и потраченного времени. Игра про баланс. Нельзя куда-то упарываться, иначе гг. Везде надо аккуратно и по-немногу идти. Пойдешь в войну? Не хватит ресурсов и науки для изучения. Пойдешь в науку, тебе пизды дадут. Короче отличная тема, но игра уже опять же для бывалых. Правила можно вообще не читать, в пк версии есть шикарное обучения от автора. Почему не 10? Остыл на ней, когда пытался получить 10лвл. Люди ливали из игры, другие ходили долго и т.д. Сейчас дошел до режима, где ходы моментальные и вот чето я к ней остыл. Если вернусь и опять буду с упоением играть, как раньше, то точно 10 воткну.
eccellenza dei giochi di civilizzazione e dei giochi da tavolo in generale. l'unica pecca del gioco può essere la durata proibitiva. più consigliata la versione digitale che la cartacea che dimezza di due volte la durata.  in una parola: CAPOLAVORO
Strictly better version of the Through the Ages -game.  Cards and the boards look better than in the older version.  Rules are a little more refined.
This feels like the heaviest game I own and lasts a long time, which is great but often a detriment to it hitting the table. I probably prefer Nation's approach of not seeing every card in every game, but there's something to be said about minimizing chance.  The iOS app is an excellent implementation and has allowed me to play this much more frequently, and that didn’t bode well for my physical copy, which is why I sold it.
[b]2016-06-26 8.5[/b] with 1x 3p [b]2016-12-05 9.0[/b] plus 5x 2p [b]2016-12-07 9.5[/b] plus 1x 3p Amazingly strategic game that also requires a lot of rethinking while the card row changes and when opponents attack. Although it is mostly cubes and card pushing, the game forces a lot of interaction between players during confrontation attacks and cutting the queue to get a powerful tech card. It is so difficult to balance all the resources and science and wait, also need military to defend yourself. Unlike some resource management game where you can potentially stockpile and figure out what to do later, TTA demands you to monitor your needs and build costly technology or buildings just in time to do what you want. It is so engrossing and tense and just absolutely amazing. It would definitely be a 10/10 if the game just runs a little bit shorter. There is never a dull moment, but it is difficult to set that much time aside if not for online gaming.
One of the best strategy board games ever created. I liked it the most with 4 players and the expansion.
Long, repetitive, fiddly with pieces, boring. Sold my copy as I will never play it again. Total boredom and way too long. Vlaada has amazing games ... this one is not!
What to say? After more than 200 plays, this is still my favourite game and I'm not sick of playing it. I can hardly imagine the game that will one day put this one aside from #1 position of my favourite list.
Fantastic Civilization building game! I am a fan of civ-like games and strategy games overall.   At first I wasn't sure if I will like the no-map approach this game takes, as I always assumed maps were a key part of civ games. However, I am happy to say, that is not an issue and this game plays great without a map. I think the territories and colonize bonuses emulate the map aspect quite well.  There are some other quirks that at first may seem odd, like the fact that when one player takes a technology card, there is a chance the other player(s) may not be able to develop that same tech, but in the grand scheme of things, it really isn't a big deal.  I played the physical copy only a few times, but I played the digital copy 100s of times. The physical game is also great, but it takes a lot longer to play \ setup, and there is a lot more bookkeeping. Regardless, the game is fantastic and I highly recommend it to any civ fans!  I do wish there was an expansion that adds a new age, a future age... one can only hope.  
Rating: 5/5 Production value: 3/4 Is the game in my collection/Love to have?: 1/1
An excellent engine building/resource management game. The game length is too much for my taste and I feel like there are a lot of small fiddly rules to keep straight. It is really fun seeing all the cards as you progress "through the ages".
I love the original.... This one looks really good but I am not sure the balance changes were for the best. I do not like how much easier the game became to mistakes, and the nerf in the military made the consequences rather small. (Last time war was declared against every round, and it just did not matter, as I still ended the game 50 points ahead)  For now, I will stick to my old version. and pass on this one
App version only. Bought base game April 7th, 2020. Bought expansion on April 27th, 2020. 
Civilization the board game, takes me back to the late 80's and early 90's  The military part almost needs 3+ players, in a two player it is not as fun
Sold my copy as I was already heavily playing the app version of it. 30 mins on the app vs 4 hours of table-top game play is such a huge time-saver (is there such a word?).
Included within the Base box is: - the Folded space insert - the New Leaders and Wonders expansion
I very much prefer the indirect War function of Nations if I'm going to play a civ builder. Too long with a million insubstantial decisions.
Quite a challenging game to and win, given all that players must manage. It seems a bit easier to play online as the game management details are covered in a scripted game. I have played more than 10 times and enjoy it.
I like this game, honestly I do, but my god it takes the eponymous ages to play.
Too many management, too less satisfaction when ends...
I love that game. Interaction is more disturbing than directly. The only problem is that you need many ours to play it. Is something you can't just open after dinner, but I still love it.
Played this recently one time. It is solid, not THAT hard to understand, although there are some confusing small rules, and ofcourse i sucked big time, because i was more busy remembering stuff and trying some things out instead of being really competitive. This game does MANY things good! I love the many tactics, mechanics which seem to work together effortly, and also really cool is the giant timeline in which you really have the feeling to go " through the ages" . Just like in Twilight Struggle, you are not playing a " race"  or a " player" but you are some overlord watching down as the years go by, tactically influencing events and leaders by playing cards, something i really like.   The only pure negative for me is the timeframe. 3 hours is really long BUT... its 3 hours well spend(to be fair, Twilight Struggle mostly lasts just as long as does chess) and what it really does well is that feeling of progression to keep stuff interesting. Nothing feels more dragging as doing the same stuff in turn 1 as you do in turn 3939 (i am looking at you, Village..) .   Overal, verdict: want to play again and some more after that! Well done
2-4 players. No expansions but several variants including solo. Own both physical and iOS versions.
This version of the game feels very much tuned for 2p duels, and that is alright with me.  Limiting Napoleon's power while boosting early military and culture earning in addition to allowing the cross-pollination of military tactics are all things that funnel into the active denial tactics used in duels.  One of the best game, made just a little bit better!
excellent game, second in my top. Mad number of games behind. Most online but in real life a lot of playing time. (pnp)
This is, in my humble opinion, perhaps the most overrated game at BBG. Considering the complexity of the rules, I had expected to get really thrilled playing. Instead I find a rather complicated version of a rather standard worker placement and card building game. My personal view, is that if the game rules are complex then one should be rewarded by an exciting game. Given the popularity of this games, I was really disappointed.   I would not recommend this game to anyone. There are plenty of other games that rewards you more or equal in terms of excitement that is much easier to understand. If you are interested, then you should be aware that there loads of small rules and restrictions to know before you are even able to play your first game, even with the so-called "First game" simplified version. I will not be able to convince my girlfriend to play this game again due to its complexity.  But yes, I may play this game again if someone else is really eager to play it. But I will not suggest it myself.
The mechanics is not very exciting. Overrated game.
Probably the best game in the world. Or Mage Knight. Depends. 
My favorite "civilization" game. -also Steam ver. of CGE Digital-
Loses half a point just for fiddliness and length. Absolutely fantastic game.
Setup is horrible. Placing all the tokens, remembering all action benefits, etc. makes this game hard to follow. Otherwise it is a very pleasant and strategic game, but I only recommend the electronic version of it. I play on the iPad and I would not change this to the board game. I sold my board game version of it and play with expansion only.
This game is very interesting and deep. It gives a real sense of building something in your tableau, and your decisions are simple but very meaningful. Surprisingly, I found that although the game is very heavy, it is not hard to learn, and people can have fun even if they don't do so well. On the negative side, it is a long and taxing game, and when it comes to games on this length/scale there is some stiff competition of other games I would rather play.
Fantastic game, but it takes too long for my group. Our first game, with a quick teach, still took 6 hours for 3 players.  I think I will just stick to the app on this game, which is a shame as it deserves all the praise it gets. I would push to get it to the table if the app wasn't so damn good.
Highly overrated imo, it is too long for what it offers. Building your civilization is nicely implemented, but the scoring makes no sense. It might reflect real life quite well through this, but it's not exactly what you're looking for a in a heavy euro.
One of those games that take a long time but have interesting, relevant and fun decisions at every point in the game. Despite it being one of the longer games, I never want it to end. :)
One of the most complex and hardest games to teach and play. Surprisingly, a board game that plays much much better digitally. Physical game is very fiddly and moving cubes all the time is a time consuming chore.
I liked the original game but some of the pieces were a bit of a pain and could easily get lost.  New version has some nicer components but really I can't say that its much of a change from the base 
Great app makes it hard to get the physical game out.
Brilliant game, just not for me. Too long and too many things to consider. Very strategic.
One of those games I think is great, but would rather play the digital version to do all the admin for me (see also: Twilight Struggle)
Rating as 9 with mx 3 players, lower at full player count
Played on both Tabletop and App, but only recorded Tabletop plays
11/20:  I don’t find it any better than the original version.  Played mainly on the iPad.  I wish I was better at this game.
IOS - App is much better than actual physical board game which I owned and traded away.
Probably my most played game via the app. The app was probably the best investment ever, being able to reset your turn quickly ... In RL, 2 player or 3 player games are best. 4 player ones can simply result it too much AP (especially if people don't think through their turn in DETAIL beforehand).
5 Plays  -3 because of the bookkeeping. So much better online. I would play it more online if there was a good web implementation. Android app is okay to play against AI, but against human opponents, makes the game feel a lot more like multiplayer solitaire which it honestly isnt. I also wish that there was some bloat cut out of the game and that all the cube moving was made more elegant somehow. Definitely better than the older edition in terms of production quality.  5/24/19 - Available online on BGA now. Expecting to get a few plays in and rate this again properly now for the gameplay while not being distracted by all the insane book-keeping. I fully expect this to go up a little bit. Let's see..  = (5/24/19) ok..not moving up.. too long for what it is... card draw randomness is a bit annoying too  -1 (7/9/19) cause i played eclipse recently and as a civ building game, that is just so much better.
Engaging, rich. I play the iPad version, and it has humorous tutorials. Makes it feel more fun when I play it.
An improvement.   If you have a regular group to play and you're all experienced, the game is a slight improvement.  If you regularly intro this to new people, definitely upgrade. It is a much more accessible version.   Downside is the box size. Original fit on my shelf much more snugly :(  Otherwise, a great rerelease and glad to own it!
Through the Ages: L'Histoire vous appartient (2016)
Super Intricate, clever and well designed mechanics, nice components and artwork that all fit inside the original box.  Besides, it is super interactive as well, because of the war and agression mechanics. To top everything, I find the game very thematic (which is not as usual for games with such robust mechanics).   The only real downside is how hard the game is to learn, and how long the matches take. For those reasons, the game barely sees the table. But I don't think that detracts from its quality or purposes.
Too long and too swingy. Also ripe for ganging up on a single player with no hope of bouncing back (they’ll just need to sit for 2 hours more until the game’s done).
Own the first edition and think I am perfectly fine with keeping that. New graphics are really pretty but also sort of busy. Would be missing the more mechanical design of the old player boards; new ones look too simplistic.  Update: Anyhow ordered the new version. Like the cubes and the rules changes do make some sense.  After some solo attempts I am looking forward to playing this opposed. Everything seems as rich as the old version but things run a bit more smoothly.
So much to recommend this game, and so many individual elements i loved and thought were fantastic.  But rarely have i felt so entirely robbed of my time after three 5 hour (largely deterministic) torture sessions.  If you make a few mistakes, you can sit around for 4 hours literally with no capacity to come back.  The one game i did fairly well, there was another player sitting in the agonizing shoes i had previously worn.  Some great ideas thrown into a game that should be two hours... tops.  If it was a 2.5 hr. game i would probably rate it a 7.5 - but as the beast it is never again for me.  Stick with the much more streamlined and replayable Nations...
Solid game, love how every game plays differently. Still, the game seems to play out more or less the same. Wheeling and dealing about the 'run away leader'.  Thematic, enough interaction and long term planning.
So long and grindy. Serious pacing problems compared to more contemporary equivalents. My main complaint is the lack of any meaningful recourse for trailing players - this falls firmly into the category of board game where the most experienced player is the one who brings it to the table and the one who inevitably wins.
Great game, but better played with the app - which is an awesome adaptation.  It is much quicker and easier to manage.
Still like this great idea of the game but the graphical resolution of the real important things is bad. I always turned around my cards to check whats military and civil . Coloured frames would have been so easy. Then why not state +1 or +2 on the cards for the things which improve your steady income.
Be prepared for a big learning curve with lots of complexity and figuring things out. I found the video setups by fans and reviewers online the fastest way to get the setup done, as jumping around the rule book can be quite confusing at times.  It's a very clever game, but it does feel a bit over complicated at times.
I love this game. Even though it is a long game, it is so much fun. (Except when you are bullied. ;)) The token management is a little bit annoying, but this game is for some reason in the top 5 for a very long time.
一款複雜度與遊戲性完全成正比的神作! 雖然規則的細節較繁瑣可能造成上手困難，不過一旦進入巨輪的世界就絕對會為之著迷。  需要掌握資源、人力的生產與消耗，計算如何使用內政點數最有效益，並且因應手上的軍事牌提前規劃，讓自己立於不敗之地。  得分方式多元富含變化，耐玩性十足，且將舊版過強與太弱的卡牌平衡後，變化更多更有樂趣!
Great game though I have only played through the app. Not sure I would enjoy the physical game due to the upkeep.
Best game I've ever played. I bought this game to my brother as birthday gift and now I regret I gave that to him ;)
As promised, streamlined and superior to the original. I still prefer Nations and playing this will need to be quite "intentional." I will never play the original again.
Le jeu parfait pour moi. En tous cas quand j'ai le temps d'y jouer. La version informatique permet de s'y adonner souvent heureusement.
One of those games where I suspect my rating will go down with more plays.  But at the moment, I haven't played nearly as much of this game as I want to (mostly due to my inability to convince my friends and family to endure the length of the game).
I like how it can manage to get so deep as a civilization through combinations of cards. However, this game also made me realize that I'm just not really into games that are entirely about the cards. I like it, but don't really have the urge to play it anymore.
J'ai joué sur mon téléphone et j'y avait donné la note de 9, mais je peux pas lui donner cette note avant de l'avoir mis au moins 2-3 fois sur la table.  Je modifie donc ma note pour l'instant, je vais devoir y jouer pour qu'il regagne sa place dans le classement.
Bonito. Arte. Temático. Muchas tarjetas en inglés. 2-4 jugadores.
Now that i have it on my ipad, I dunno how often I can get the physical game to play.  But what a great game!
What a game! The only things that keep it from getting an even higher rating for me is my love of maps in games and its length/accessibility. But fantastic game.
Technically a competent game, but very much too fiddly at the table, and has too much of a runaway player element without any catchup.
for game with so a many rules, it feels very restrictive . I feel   Straightjacketed right from the start, you have to keep up with all the stats.  Creative and bold plays are punished. If you cant keep up in this statfest you are punished for an hour before it finaly ends.  I dont like the theme where tanks and hoplites can fight each other. I am a big Vlaada fan, but this game is by far not his best work, it misses the fun of his other games
A game that is interesting, deep, well-designed...but just. too. long...  * Auctioned for charity
Played a few times in the past and liked it Replayed it recently and liked it more Need to play it more
An improvement on the original for sure. Just a classic. No-nonsense strategic environment where you have plenty of opportunities to screw up and take yourself out of the game. Probably only fun for really serious gamers.   The game's biggest issue, unsurprisingly, is the randomness of card draw, which is the problem all heavy card-driven games suffer from. While it doesn't always ruin the game, every once and it REALLY does. Simply not having the ability to purchase key military related cards at the end of the game can literally cost you the game.   I think a slightly different construction of the age 3 deck could get rid of the worst offenders of this randomness. Having 1 less copy than the number of players in the game is a questionable choice when it comes to some really important cards.   Overall quite good, but the end game can get pretty repetitive among serious players.
Only played Solo: Interesting but heavy rules and long
Great game. Difficult to get to the table though. Most of my plays have been online.
Card Drafting  Action Points Auction/Bidding Auction: Dutch Card Drafting Events Income Take That
This is a great game because of how utterly engaging it is from start to finish.
I do love this game, and the digital version is the way to go for sure. It really does feel like an abstracted, containerized, card version of a civilization game. There is a tremendous amount of strategic depth here, and I like most of the mechanics of the game. With that said, and I know true fans will razz me, but war over culture almost ruins the game. I know there is more balancing going on here than I am aware of, but I feel it pretty much guarantees that a military engine will always beat out an economic/culture engine. The worst part is you can't plan to just go military and play a war over culture, because you might NOT EVEN GET THE CARD! The game is very unforgiving, and many times hidden information cards can be huge point swings. If you like engine building games where you can and will screw over yourself and your friends, where even the tightest planned strategy can fail, I would recommend it.
A fun game that generally overstays it's welcome.  I think this would be a classic if it were .... half or a third the time commitment?  I really enjoy the process of building up a civilization, managing resources and workers, making people happy, establishing governments, etc .... but the game turns into a bit of a slog in the last third.  Games should end with people wanting more, to play it again, not with a sigh and a thousand-yard-stare.   EDIT:  As if to prove my point, I discovered that the electronic version of the game can take somewhere in the neighborhood of one hour to finish.  When I picked it upon Steam I loved it.  Seriously, 9/10.  So much of the fiddly book keeping and waiting around is gone and they streamlines the rules for faster play.  Now, with this version, I am left "wanting more" ... but I doubt I will bust out the physical version any time soon.
Very good worker placement euro, great theme, strong and streamlined. Based on iOS version, also got the cardboard. Personally, I feel this one may be better in app form, as there are so many moving parts, but the board is nice if you have the spare time!
I played it once so far and at this point I liked the game mechanic and the theme but the game took quite long. I'm happy to play it again if I find the time and the possibility.
My only problem of this game is that it takes too long....
I have both the game and the app. Good strategy game, but it's too card centric for me.
Great one, though a bit long on the table especially with 4 players. I do recommend the App though. Great AI!
All plays are the digital edition on my kindle. I played an earlier edition of this when it first came out and it was so profoundly fiddly I spent all my time trying to keep tiny colored discs from rolling away. But as a digital game where the AI manages all of that, it's pretty deep, and even the easy level AI is often a challenge to beat. Repeated plays means you start to know and plan for cards, military becomes more and more important, and the final push is either an all in gamble or a giving up in realization tha tit is too little too late.
Outstanding game of managing a civilization from the ground up, rewarding strategic play which really gets you thinking about how you could improve for your next game. Almost all plays logged were couples games, and not necessarily playing the whole game at once - the four different ages allows us to mitigate the long play time by spreading ages across a couple of evenings. Recommended for anyone who enjoys civilization building, tight resource management and executing long-term strategies.  The biggest downside to this game is that, due to the same deck being used in each game, the only variability from game-to-game is the order in which cards come out. 
A masterpiece made even better with this revised edition.
The new version is *much* improved over the previous one.  The cards are gorgeous and the new board layout is extremely helpful.  I'm still not sure that military is toned down enough, but it is definitely not quite as strong as it was.  It's still a really long game, and the event scoring at the end can feel a bit random.  
Way to long and solitaire for what it is.  The interactions through war are not terribly interesting. The lack of a map really hurts the game and makes it feel like an enginebuilder with special powers instead of a civ game.  There are so many games I'd rather play given the huge time commitment. Polis is a much better civ style game with actual interaction.
Buenisimo!! pero algo largo, para jugarlo una vez al mes a lo mucho.
This game is a fantastic blend of heavy strategy, situational tactics, and gameplay variety from game to game based on the order of the cards.  The best way to play is on the ios app.
Deep game. Played a lot of TTA on BGA then ANS on BGO. F2F games are a blast and last a while but you never feel like you are doing nothing. every turn matters...  Edit: Best board game ever made.
Fun game.  Overstays it's welcome a tad, but nonetheless, it is a great experience and well deserving of it's high ranking.
SHSD does not recommend. Also the market has a TON of for sale. This tells me it is a 4-5 hour experience but maybe not one you want to replay (rather T13, Eclipse, etc.) with that time? Also looks like it can be picked up for about 15 bucks on the secondary market.
Through the Ages has a lot of interesting mechanisms intertwined with its systems.  Unfortunately, this game just did not click with us.    The player turns are excessively long and checklist heavy leading to an extremely slow downtime at higher player counts.  The actions themselves start to feel like abstract cube pushing (for example, it costs a cube to spend these other cubes to move this other cube up here) where the satisfaction is drowned out by the monotony of it all.  Instead of spending your brain power strategizing and scheming and watching other players like a predator watches its prey, you spend most of the game consuming the endless fire hose of new information from a huge row of wordy cards and ritualistic bookkeeping.  This too draws away from the fun that a strategy game should provide.  For us, the game lowers its own fun ceiling with major down time, excessive steps, and struggling to get out of its own way and just let the players play.  This issue is only further exacerbated by being a 4-5+ hour game.  Where a game demands such a major investment of learning, playing time, bookkeeping, and brain power, we find no reason to come back to Through the Ages when so many other games pack a larger punch.
I have to say, the new version makes this one a perfect 10 in my book!  The improvements made are REAL improvements, the new way Corruption works is just intuitive and makes the gameplay so much smoother, and I mean MUCH... it's a world apart, in the old version it was a PitA the way it worked, leading to full turns being taken back because we only knew the corruption at the end, now it's so much easier to see it, it's immediate.  I also really liked the way the Tactics worked, not that I benefited from that, I was the one playing then and having them copied :p but it's a big improvement, as is the way that Wars and Aggression are now resolved... removing the sacrificing of units in the wars and allowing the discarding of any Military card to use it as a 1 defense point against an Aggression are excellent implementations.  I also liked the re-balancing done to some of the cards and the inclusion of great Artwork on the cards that make the game much more appealing visually!  I don't remember a single thing I didn't like about the new version!
I'm fairly certain this is the best game I've ever played, and I haven't grown tired of all of the different strategies that can lead to victory. Hard to get to the table due to its length, and the app that was released emulates the board game so perfectly that I don't see myself playing the hard copy much in the future. Still, an excellent heavy game.
I really dislike games that punish the weakest and with thsi game ypu can spend hours doing nothing than losing slowly and painfully.
Edit: Lowered rating to 8 because it is a little too brutal and long for me. Getting behind in this game can be pretty terrible (3+ hours of being destroyed) so it's probably best to play with similar skill levels.  Provides a strategically complex challenge which manages to stay fairly simple in terms of rules. Sure, there's a lot to think about, but the iconography and player boards are well done. This stands out among other complex games because of how the actions make intuitive sense.   There are so many choices, yet formulating a general plan and strategy isn't too hard. "I'll build up my ore production, build a laboratory to increase my science production, then work on military before my opponent gets too strong." However, turns usually take a while, and with decisions having long-lasting consequences players might find themselves debating between different plans.  The card drafting method works great (removing cards at the end of the "market" and sliding them down). The order in which cards come out give every game many unique and interesting decisions. Sometimes it can seem a bit unfair when you aren't able to get that card you really wanted, but there are so many avenues to victory that skill is the primary factor.  The engine building and building up your civilization in general is very rewarding. There is the potential for a "runaway leader", mainly because of how strategic it is, but even in the last few rounds a lot can change.   The only real flaw in this game is the length. It's very long, especially on the first play, and on the first play you might feel overwhelmed and end up not understanding how elements interact. Be prepared to spend 4+ hours (My friend and I took 6 hours on our first playthrough) not exactly knowing what you're doing. After you "understand" how the game works, the various elements work together very well.  Also, it can be very punishing. Getting behind a bit in military isn't really a problem, but being moderately behind can be *very* bad. This isn't necessarily a negative, but some might be put off by how brutal the game can be at times. (There is a peaceful variant, but you end out missing out on a lot of the game, and balancing is probably a bit off.) And as with many engine builders, if a player is not able to build a good engine, they will fail and might find themselves without any saving grace.  For example, not building an adequate food engine can leave a player with no reliable way to gain new workers, which can completely stop their progress.  The theme is integrated extremely well. It doesn't get in the way of the gameplay but makes actions feel more meaningful and gives the game more of a narrative. It does feel like true civilization building, even though it's all just cards.  Not for everyone, but those willing to take the plunge will find an extremely deep, brutal, and strategic Euro.  
It will take a few games before you even start to understand what is happening.
App version only. I'd have to be convinced to play the cardboard version; the bookkeeping seems atrocious. Still, a solid civ whose charm overcomes its laughable abstraction of history.  UPDATE: After more plays, I'm cooling to the game. It's a lot more on rails than I initially realised. There's clearly better paths than others and you will be punished by competent players from deviating too far. You almost need *more* cards and a way to seed the deck to enable more valid strategies -- an appeal for Civ to move away from the Civ view of history.   Downtime is horrible, even in the app's streamlined version. Never want to play this in the flesh.
This game got a second life because of amazingly good app version where all issues of fiddliness kind of went away. Having played so much, now; I can run the tabletop version pretty smoothly as well.  There's a lot to like here: this can be deep and strategic and tactical and mean and extremely rewarding and satisfying.  But it's still a beast to play -- an amount of fiddliness that I don't expect most people would tolerate.        * * *  I'll start my rating at 7.8 with a feeling that it will move after more plays.  My initial impression is that the game is way too fiddly for my taste: the constant accounting of action cubes and pushing of resources up and down my player board began to feel like quite a chore by the 3rd hour of play!  
Needed:  329 x Swan PanAsia sleeve size: 51x77 (SWN-012, 160/pack) - (51 x 77mm)
App   I like this game well enough and its a clever design but not as in love with it as others. Plus playing the physical game takes far too long for the payoff. I rate the base game a 7 but the app is fabulous and adds a point
The only bad thing with this game is that the app makes it so much better.  I always want to play this, and currently, I do, a lot! But it's a larger investement of time to grab the actual board game when you can play it online with your friends instead!  The design of this game is so clever I can't even imagine how someone can make a game like this.  --  Together with the expansion, this game is a 10/10. The main reason for this is that I have played hundreds of games and yet I don't get bored with it. Even if I take a pause from it, I still find myself coming back, making new combinations, trying new things out.
This was fine for one long game, then it is boring.  There are many design choices to nitpick, but the game just isn't engaging for me.  The mixed-age military aspect is just silly.  Naturally particular tastes vary, but I hope to never play again.  To narrow down why, if you like any war games, the strategy probably won't be complex enough, so you'd better enjoy the theme and engine growth. Many love this game, but I'd recommend watching a playthrough a couple of times before buying.
So far I've only played this through the mobile app. I love this game so far. Everything works together so nicely. All aspects of your civilization must be balanced - you need science, food, resources, military, happy faces, actions, good leaders and wonders, etc... But you simply don't have time to do everything.  The game is tense and requires a lot of strategy. Most of the time you aren't doing well, it is because of something you did(or didn't do) several turns ago. But the game also requires you to adapt to which cards show up in which order. You have to make choices about whether to upgrade your farms now, or wait a few turns and maybe try to get a farm from a later age. You also have to adapt to what the other players are doing.  Overall, an excellent game. It's fun to build up your civilization, and if you play well, finally get an engine going that could win you the game.
To enjoy this game fully, you have to play it more than one time only.
Oh my gosh, what an over-rated and hyped game we have here. Icons are confusing at first: do you increase your POINTS or your PRODUCTION, why not using "+" sign evenly; also the card track could force you to either spend all your actions on precious productions cards (to be taken as soon as they appear else they'll be taken by other players/disappear from the track)... or invest into sub-optimal (but cheaper) choices. The colonization minigame frankly is a punch to the throat: it breaks tempo and distract anyone around to scan your own tableau for ship symbols and some damn calculations. Speaking of that, there are some nonsense maths in the middle-late game where you could as well pay 3 1-worth blue cubes... or a single 3-worth one; but you can convert one into another (as they are the same) while you need to cover up "tax spaces" - so you really prefer to return many cubes over...  All in all, it's a good game, too much mathy and "dry". Eclipse (the 2nd ed) has a much more focused engine and clearer civ-building feeling. Looking forward to a mix of those 2 for the definitive Civ the bg.  Rate: :star::star::nostar:
One of the best games I ever played.  It captures everything you want in civilization building.  I enjoy playing it both with the board and the app.  High 5
Very good game, played at a friends house, who own it.
Vlaada is really great, and this game is really fantastic. 98% of the game is multiplayer solitaire and that's a problem with higher players count.
A very thematic game: TTA depicts the history of civilization over thousands of years, which is about as long as the game takes to play. Takes much too long to grok, you have to use a couple of games to learn it, but this is difficult considering you need the time to foster grandchildren to continue your legacy and finish your turns in the second game. Try Nations for a similar feel, but in a more humane form.
YES! I finally got my hands on a copy! Can't wait for it to come in. Excellent game, I just forget the time.  includes:[thing=280833][/thing]
Digital Version.  Amazing to play as an app, I can see how fiddly and complex this would be to play in person. A really great game- only downside is that once you fall behind, it seems nearly impossible to catch up.   Honestly I should rate this a 10 because of how many games I've played through the app, but I'm just too annoyed by the fact that if you fall behind in a single resource too drastically you will wreck your engine, and if you're behind militarily the whole game you're going to get beat up on. Not a huge issue, but there's very few friends I could imagine playing this with IRL, let alone through the app. Only a subset of my friends who even play board games would want to agonize over a 4 hour game while getting attacked constantly and never catching up.
THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING SPECIAL ABOUT THIS GAME it's not even a deep game it's just rule heavy with lots of cluncky and disturbing mechanics
A LONG game no matter how you slice it, but lots of great choices to be made.
A great game, but it's actually better online than offline, where a computer can calculate the upkeep of food and minerals, and you can experiment a bit with your actions before committing. Available on http://www.boardgaming-online.com
Wonderful Civilization board game. the problem is the duration of the game and to find people who want to understand and play the game
The updates fixed the minimal problems. A great and lasting game.
Favorite game of all time! Add the expansion for unlimited replay-ability. Quite complicated to start out with, and you're never fully aware of what's going on, but for veteran gamers, this is a must-buy.
Played a gazillion times in the app, but have never played the physical game, yet. 
Pushing cubes and pushing cubes and buying cards and pushing cubes. It's really well designed, but I find the gameplay very boring.
It is what it says. A long deep civilization building game through the ages. Take it or leave it.
Es un JUEGAZO. Si tenemos que decir algo negativo sería que tiene mucho despliegue y que es difícil de entender. Pero después de la primera partida va rodado. Es un juego muy largo, pero que ni te enteras. Puedes ir a muchas estrategias y sin duda ninguna partida es igual que la anterior. Los líderes tienen un protagonismo notable, una buena elección te puede hacer las cosas más fáciles.  Es impresionante que solo moviendo unos cubos aporte la sensación de desarrollo de la civilización. Escala perfectamente en todo el rango de jugadores (2 a 4), si bien es cierto que a 4 tiene más emoción y posibilidades con las cartas de pacto, se puede hacer un poco pesado el entreturno.
Although only played the physical game twice, I've played a lot online.  This game (and its predecessor) is just brilliant.  Loads of depth, with several strategies that can be tried in order to ensure victory.  Be warned though that this is a bit of a brain-burner and has a long play time (which is why online is the better way to play IMHO). 
Rövid idő alatt a legtöbbet játszott játékunk lett, ez talán mindent elmond... Amióta megvettem és este játszani támad kedvünk,egyöntetűen erre szavazunk párommal, így elég sok 2 személyes tapasztalatom van vele. Első 2 játék viszonylag hosszú volt, de most már 2-2,5 óra simán végigjátsszuk. De tartalmas és izgalmas ahhoz a játékmenet, hogy a hossza ne okozzon gondot. A játék elején a civilizációnk fenntartása később a nyerőpontok kimaxolása miatt végig figyelni kell. Konfrontáció nekünk pont elég, a hadászatra rágyúrva eléggé meg lehet tolni ezt az oldalát is a játéknak. Van egy 3 és egy 4 fős partim is benne, de ez sajnos nem mérvadó, nem gémerekkel játszottam, de azt azért hozzá kell tennem, hogy nekik is nagyon bejött a játék. Nem játszottam az első kiadásával (bár nagyon szerettem volna), csak a szabálykönyvét olvastam át párszor, ez alapján összehasonlítani nem tudom. Érzésem szerint a kék kockák kezelésének megváltoztatása mindenképpen jót tett a játéknak, itt biztosan kisebb az AP veszélye a játéknak, könnyebbnek tűnik kiszámolni a korrupciót.
The app version is amazingly good. The game is a real feat of design, but my relatively low rating is because after you have familiarized yourself with the deck it becomes less interesting--I am not sure why there aren't variable decks a la Agricola to keep it fresh.  I can't imagine playing this much in RL, though--too long and too much bookkeeping for a game with this level of randomness. The way it incentivizes picking on the weakest player is also offputting (whereas it's usually impossible to tackle the leader head-on if they have enough military might).  UPDATE: Yeah, this sucks as a live game. 5-6 hours to play, and one player will be forced to sit there for half of it being a piñata--getting beat up for resources, light bulbs and culture points. No wonder the rules explicitly allow players to resign early. It's ugly stuff and none of the clever mechanisms of the game make up for it.
This game saved my life during my Peace Corps service. Randomly found this one day in a mall in Manila. Bought it and played non-stop, two to three times a week for months. The biggest rating killer is the downtime between turns and the lack of player interaction. But I throughly enjoy the complex decision trees that come up in building one's tableau.
Including Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders
A great game at 3 players. It is long, so you've got to commit an afternoon or a whole day to it. It really plays a lot like the Civilization videogames, albeit without the maps. We've played it several time and enjoyed it. It will be on my shelf and occasionally on my table for years to come.
Base game New Leaders and Wonders Expansion Swan sleeves
The actual gameplay is very well designed in this card driven game. The whole game takes a while (4-6 hours) but the experience is worth it. 
Excellent but long game and the more players the longuer the game.
Just as excellent as its predecessor. Delicious decisions to make every single turn. A few inelegant feeling systems that remain entirely necessary. A gaming classic.
iOS version, still trying to make it through the tutorial......
When rating this game be honest about the version. The app version is supposed to be leagues better than the board game versions. Taking away all the book keeping and down time is HUGE! The app might be great, but the physical copy has many many flaws.
Maybe some balance issues and some luck of the draw, but still quite enjoyable. It's probably a smidge too long for my taste plus I'm not a huge fan of military stuff in civ games, but I do understand and appreciate the buzz it's getting. The app would probably make it a nine for me, as the real thing is a bit too slow and fiddly.
Acquired: 02-12-2017  After I was introduced with board game world I started looking for games that would cover all sort of mechanics, categories, size group, theme etc. I'm not a fun of history, I just have this in me, so when I saw this game i was in love (sry A). But I was wrong. I feel in love when i first try it. I can't imagine the mind of Vlaada who is behind this game. Well done and thank you.  We play it most in 2p and it took us 2,5h.
Very nice.  Military is not so punishing now.  Rebalance of cards and smoothed out resource generation / feeding people / corruption phase.
Through the Ages is way too long to make playing worth it-- moving cubes around to make my engine slightly more efficient just doesn't have the same good feeling as building up buildings on a map that other tight euros have. The app version of the game is alright to play, but I don't think I'll ever want to play the board game again.
Difficult to learn and play well. Very challenging to play well.
This is just the absolute top of strategy board gaming! The depth and theme of this game are outstanding and stunning. When I played this game for the first time, I already knew it was going to be one of my favourite games ever...
Except for the length of this game, everything is perfect.  That being said, you couldn't really play this game in a shorter version.  Our shortest time has been four or five hours on the beginner level.  I really love everything about it, though.  Great game mechanics.  Changes every time.  Awesome civ-builder!
Too abstracted and way less thematic than it should be.  Moving little cubes around and getting different leaders doesn't really feel like history being revealed to me.  Doesn't work for me.
Very solid crunchy civ game. You are basically choosing cards to build your civilistaion as they whizz by you on a conveyor belt of cards representing time.   But within that conveyor belt lie famous leaders, wonders, special technologies, military developments, theaters, libraries, labs, arenas, governments and more. Each gives you a perk, but each costs precious actions and resources.  Then there is a military deck you draw from, which can contain military strategies, wars, aggresions, colonies, or events that you can seed that will appear later.  Sounds pretty complicated, and it is quite a heavy game, but after a few plays it all makes sense and it is definitely well worth the learning curve.    The app is easily one of the best game apps out there, and CGE put a lot of time into it so it reflected 'A New Story of Civilisation' perfectly. The tutorial on the app alone is worth the $10 AUD it cost.  Be prepared to invest some time, this is the main drawback of Through the Ages. Through the Ages can take ages to play.    
This is an incredible game with a lot of replayability value. I would say, every game of Through the Ages I played never felt the same. It's also a game with an incredibly long learning curve (at least it was for me) and I was doing a lot of things wrong before I've played the digital version of that game (available across multitudes platforms: I've played the PC, Mac and iOS versions). The digital version is almost identical to the original and helped me to learn the rules and the dynamics of the game.  Without any doubt, I could say, it's the best board game I have ever played.
Great game, very deep, but also plays fast once you have internalized it. Sad I'll never own it because tabling it will be impossible. Luckily the app is great!
Its a great game, but this version did not fixed the big issues. Downtime and to much moves with no interaction are stil present. It improves the wars, and agressions and simplifies corruption accounting. 
My first board game ever. Enjoyed it a lot. It is a little complicated to begin with yet if you invest enough you are going to love it.
The best civ game out there that I like to play more, but more often i end up playing Nations sice it is faster. Non the less, if you got the time it is well spent.
Strategy Complexity: 4,37  Player: 2-4 Best: 3  Védőzni kell
I've always been skeptical towards games that claim to be civilization games without boards. When I finally got to try the King of civilization games according to the Boardgamegeek list my prejudices were confirmed. I can see that there is a game where you draw and place cards to build combinations to improve your civilization in various aspects. However, I just can't see a civilization for all the cards and I prefer the similar but simpler Nation to this fiddly affair.
+ High interaction + Setup variety + Powerful upgrades  - Very high downtime - Long game - Hard to teach - Book keeping - Static opening moves
38€. Conjunto com expansão New Leaders e insert folded space. Jogo em PT expansão em ENG.  Tudo na mesma caixa.
I can appreciate the design and scope, though as a game it's simply too long and over-bloated.  Updated rating after playing 15 or so matches using the app: The way wars and conflicts work often results in all players ganging up on the player with the smallest military. And the more that player is ganged up on, the harder it gets for him to get back into the game. Considering the length, I believe this is a critical flaw.   This game is grossly overrated.
US- We're very glad we persevered through learning this game. It took a while to learn at least with no one teaching us!
Amazing rulebook, perfect flow. A civ game without a map.   Would give it a 10, but it seems like strategy can be a little bit...fixed.
Better production value than "old" TTA + better rules should do the trick. Still unplayed by now, rating could go up ( down? ) after first play.  Edit: played a full 4 players game and the rating goes up to a solid 9. Very good improvements on the already great original TTA.
My BGG: 10 - Outstanding 7 - Good 5 - Medicore 2 - Bad
Even after thoroughly reading the rulebook and watching videos, myself and my girlfriend still haven't played it completely correct several play throughs later. Such a complex but satisfying civ builder. Be prepared for lots of bookkeeping.
Wow, I was surprised by this game. It didn't look good at first because I'm used to seeing a map with explorable terrain in this type of game. Through the Ages doesn't have a map to explore, it's all abstracted into different types of cards that you hold in your hand. But it actually ends up working really well.  This game is made for real Civilization fans. Beware that it takes a lot of time to play, at least 1 hour per player and probably more. So I recommend playing 2-3 players so it doesn't take too long. There are lots of little pieces to keep track of as well. But it's worth it because this game gives an epic feeling of civilization-building that is hard to beat!
It is an ok game. Depending on the variant, it almost forces you to keep up your military. Especially with certain players. The game gets very stale, very fast. I played it a few times and was already tired of seeing the same cards over and over. Cool idea though and solid mechanics. Just wish there was more replayability. I wouldn't play it again. It got that stale for me.
Only played the app. Very good engine builder. A lot of interesting controls on each system
A true masterpiece with the new rules.  THIS is the game if I could only play one game ever in my life. For details, look at my comment on the original TTA.
Have played it on the app. Seems to be a much more streamlined than playing it in person for sure!
An improvement over the original.  It would be a 10 but set up and piece management is too clunky for that.  Much better on the app that does it all for you :-)
Bought from APEK 2017-08-22. Really good civilization game. Have only played it on 2 players, but also on the app a bit. I like the experience, but i'm not very good at it.
Only one play in but I already live this game. The first game took about 6 hours for two players so we will see if the rating stays the same with more plays. The time it took to play this game flew by as you always feel engaged and always excited to see what's available next on the card draft board.
I like this one very much, although I understand that it may be not for everyone.   It's well known that this game has high downtimes between turns, but I don't mind that as long as there is no AP. I usually enjoy watching how others work on their turns.  Another usual complaint is that the game is too complex to be enjoyable. Well, all I can say is that after a couple of games mechanics felt natural to me. Besides, the rulebook has improved a lot in the updated version of the game.   If you can surpass the above, this one is of the most truthful thematic experiences you can get from an euro-style game in my opinion. The feeling that you get while your civ improves age by age is so good. It really feels that you are accomplishing something great. And the best part is that you will probably get that feeling even if you are not the winning player during the final scoring.  My advice to introduce new players to the game would be to tell them not to worry about winning or about strategy in their first game(s). I'd say that explaining most of the ruling before starting the game should be avoided. Allow new players to learn the rules little by little while they play. 
It's definitely one of my favorite civ games, but I do feel like the military is a little swingy. Still, it's a beautiful puzzle every time.
Online plays. Military is much less effective for Wars.
One of the biggest, heaviest, deepest, longest and best strategy board games in history. You need an entire day to play it (really!), but it's a really fun challenge! Probably the best Vlaada game so far.
It's an awesome game, just not a good board game. It takes way too long to play and the rounds are so long you might spend 45 minutes between turns with the largest player count. I had fun playing it, but will probably never play it again.  The app available on phones and Steam is great fun with friends!
This updated version of Through the Ages tweaks and balances some cards, and adding new leaders to balance the game. The most important rule change is not allowing a person to sacrifice units in a war or aggression. In the old game, the sacrificing of units can be abused. If someone was winning in a 3 player game, a player that was completely out of it could play kingmaker or generally disrupt the game. by declaring war on the leader, then sacrificing units.    I do like this new version much better, and I am looking forward to more plays. In a 3 player game, one player who is out, which seems to typically happens in our game, can unduly influence the winner by attacking without thinking through the consequences of who will win, and being a kingmaker, which can be frustrating. I hope there is a mechanism for this third player, other than by resigning as suggested in the rules. Now, there are some aggression cards and war cards which can really destabilize the game, so you might be forced to build up your military to prevent that from happening from you. That might detract from an otherwise decent game. However, I know other people enjoy that aspect of it, but I'm not a huge fan of the aggression.
An epic game, but SO SO worth it. Probably worth a 10, but the time constraint and limited players to invite makes it hard to get to the table. Bumped rating from 9 to 9.5, because it is the one LONG game I am VERY keen to keep getting to the table, and getting 3/4 player games of.  Update March 2021: my rating would likely have dropped a little, except the Leaders and Wonders expansion makes this infinitely replayable, and the best at what it does. While the physical game is still somewhat of an abacus (and draws part of my brain away from the strategy and tactics), it is otherwise hard to fault. With Leaders and Wonders, a 10, as even with over a hundred plays it still fascinates me.
Partita più lunga: 5 ore (4 giocatori) Partita più breve: 4 ore (2 giocatori, spiegazione)  Peso: PESANTE
Superior reimplementation of the original game, tidying up some of the turn sequence elements and rebalancing cards to give many options of avenues to explore. The result is an interesting Euro engine-builder with plenty of player interaction and is probably the best boardgame version of the type of civilization setting that Sid Meier's computer games have made famous.  However, this is still a difficult game to have the perfect game of: it takes several plays for new players to get up to speed on the cards and the way your engine is constructed an to balance the different elements of the economy you must build. But the game is long, especially with analytical players, which can increase the difficulty of getting to that stage. I have to be in the right mood for this one.  The digital implementation available on iOS/Android/Steam is superb and can help people get acquainted with the game for face-to-face play, or possibly just replace it altogether given the fully automated book-keeping, helpful reminders, and removal of all memorisation elements.
2015 New Edition - has some changes/improvements  Have not played the game, but comments on low interaction, downtime, optimization, and fiddly bookkeeping have kept me from acquiring Through the Ages. Did not enjoy Nations that much, so.. why would it be different with TTA?
Probably the best board game I own. It is a bit long though, so I don't get to play it as often.
I've played some of the original TtA, and this feels a very natural successor.  More compelling graphics, and cubes instead of barrels, both help maintain player engagement.  Far too many different-sized boards in this version, which were neatly consolidated into a single board in the original.  I'd happily play either this or the original without any qualms.
I own a digital copy.   10 - I wouldn’t turn down an offer to play. #1 game in its niche to receive a 10.  9 - Neat. Awesome. Unique. I will play this any time any where.  8 - Excellent game. Frequently sees play.   7 - Okay. This is a rating for games I played before and liked but don’t need to play frequently.  6 - Rarely played.  5 - Will sit on shelf for a long time.  4 - Nearly unplayable for any number of reasons.  
Das erstaunliche an diesem Zivilisations-Spiel ist die Tatsache, dass fast alles in Form von KARTEN untergebracht ist. Egal, ob Weltwunder, Anführer, militärische Einheiten, Taktik, zivile Gebäude, Staatsform, historische Ereignisse, Bündnisse, Angriffe oder sogar Kriegserklärungen: Alles findet auf Karten Platz. Das Spiel bietet nicht nur eine unglaubliche taktische Vielfalt, sondern ist auch erstaunlich gut ausbalanciert.
It's good and thinky but a bit complex and fiddly and definitely too long for me. Not crazy on military either, but the theme works, and despite being fiddly, it has an elegance to it too. I think I'd like this game occasionally when I have an experienced group but without experience, its downtime and length is too long.  I also think I may still prefer a board/map.
It's good, but it takes a long time to get good at. This is better as an App. Will never play the thing in cardboard format again
8/14/2020 - The day that I decide to get rid of this game means I have quit board games. It's a staple and holds legendary status.   Jan 2020 Update - Reevaluating this game based on over 1000 unique games played. Played this a ton on the app, then bought the board game. It's a classic.
Definitely the longest game to play that I own, but a solid civilization building experience. Very rewarding and fun to play.
Updated action cards make sthe game easier, rebalanced leaders and wonders a huge balancer Yet to decide if no sacrificing makes things better or not
• Strategy game (mid~heavyweight) • Card-driven + Civilization • Maybe the best civ game out there? • Great theme • Good artwork • Decent components • Replayability: Medium • best with 2-3 players
I’m going to give an 8 for the board game and 10 for the app. The reason being is keeping track of everything is tedious and boring and makes the game so long. That with more 3 players I would never play. I rather just play the app on my phone then pull this game out. Which I haven’t in over a year. If you don’t mind managing everything. This game is for you
It was good. Bring snacks next time. Don't love counting things.
Action Points Auction/Bidding Auction: Dutch Card Drafting Events Income Take That 
Took me a while to get into this but have gotten into it in the past year or so.  I definitely prefer the peaceful varient (or, as in one game, we all just decided not to attack each other without officially knowing of the peaceful variant) as I'm not a fan of the conflict aspect.  There are definitely cards that can just disappear (I'm looking at you Rats) but even with that it's a good game.  Definitely if you play against experienced players you will loose.  That being said I enjoy the engine building, even if I get distracted trying to make my engine better and so fail to actually create a culture machine and so lose.
Quite an improvement over the original with only a few minor tweaks, and the original was a great game in its own right. Truly innovative civ with no map but all the feel of a civ game.  There is definitely a learning curve to this game. An experienced player will mop the floor with a noob, often leaving a bad taste in the noob’s mouth..... and it is not just because the noob is unfamiliar with the hundreds of cards in the game. It is because military might, and the proper wielding of that might, is a game breaker for inexperienced players.  There is a large school of thought that military is the most important element of the game. It is not. But a bad experience as a noob will definitely leave one with that impression. Earning victory points is the key to the game, and that often gets lost in the military scramble.
Good game, but tends to be too heavy for me. I like Nations more.
Great game. It's brilliantly implemented on many levels -  both strategic and tactical planning, with very interesting and tight resource management. It gives a great sense of civilisation game, even if some mechanics are abstract and there is no map. Rate for both base and expansion. 
I've played digital version only, and don't think I want to play the physical version ever.  Some games do a lot with a little. This game does a lot with a lot.  And for the game that this long and big I don't think that the experience it provides is rich enough. It's a good design and a good game, but something still not quite right.
A masterpiece! Very strategic. A huge decision space. Imposible to get tired of this game. Addictive. Strongly recommended.  I don't like to play with devices. But I make an exception for the app for this game developed by the creators: it is very well done and simplify the bookkeeping. Strongly recommended as well.
Really fun game, super crunchy. Really enjoy it every time I play it but it's so hard to get to the table because of the play time. I find myself playing the app far more often.
I have all intents of playing this soon. Learned on the 3rd edition. 
Extensive use of text - massive conversion needed to be playable
Slow, ponderous civilisation builder. I like the huge variety in cards, but consequence is it can be difficult to plan for when cards might appear. Honestly as a noob player it feels like a ship on the verge of capsizing, violently tilting one way then the other. The game is in trying to balance so many needs. Military feels difficult to do well, but that is likely a group meta issue. Also doesn't feel particularly thematic or that you're building a unique nation. 
Great game, only downside seems to be that it takes a bit too long to play a full game.
Major downside is the time between turns (at least with new players)  This game is probably only worth playing in digital format  Really enjoy the peaceful variant
Fun game, but long. Really easy to get yourself into a situation where it feels like you can't salvage the game, especially if you get screwed by having a low military value. I got pummeled to the point I was near resigning and then manages to claw back a victory by two points because my opponent made a mistake and I managed to complete a wonder that scored me a lot of points in the final turn.
Very deep. Fair learning curve. Needs regular plays so as to not forget all rules. 
My 1st 10 rating. Very balanced, I recommend to play the app version to get some experience. Still trying to figure out how I will increase my win ratio but I enjoy everry game so far.
Great civilization game. Hard to get to the table because of the game length and it's a bit fiddly but the game itself is soooooo good.
Only have it on iPad. Do own the older version. This one is not that different (some improvements, but lost the shortened versions).
The best civilization game I have ever played, replacing the previous best civilization game I had ever played, Through the Ages: A Story of Civilization. While the cards aren't much larger than the previous cards, the size difference is greatly appreciated.
It's only an 8 and not a 10 because of its length. If I can get the same 2 other people to play this more regularly and get it down to 2-2.5 hours, it will be a 10.  Fantastic game. Civilization in a box with tense, close scoring all the way to the end. 
Fantastic game. Balanced, deep, many different options of how to build your civilization. Great sense of achievement and progression. You always know, when you messed up,  every turn is significant, no coincidences.
It's hard not to be impressed by the scope of design here. Through the Ages is extremely well made. For me, I never feel a payoff in this game. It's like pushing a boulder uphill. If only I could finish this, then that. It never concludes to a satisfying finale. I'm not happy with what I've build. The game just ends. Probably would require way too much effort to git gud, than I'm willing to input.
Potential Trade. Played digital - good! Will rarely get played and some simpler more fast past paced civ games will get played more.
Best civilization game. Played alot with my husband. 10!
Its magaloman although moving the pieces are anoying and need a lot attention.
Hoo boy. Civilization: the Card Game. With all the good and the baggage that brings with it.   I couldn't play this frequently. But as an occasional event game it'll do quite well.   Also it's not nearly as heavy as that weight score claims. Neither in complexity nor depth.   Edit: App sure makes it breezy, though. Makes for a pretty fun async game, and the expansion seems to be pretty killer for spicing things up.
Online plays only. Have enjoyed the games that I have played and am slowly learning some of the paths to victory. Extremely complex in the management of the cards that come out and whatever path you are trying to take. Update: Realy not enjoying the game anymore. After a couple more plays, you seem to be forced into being militaristic - most of the events that come out benefit the strong and weaken the weak - be it in military strength or culture.  I understand why this is, it pushes you forward and stops people focusing on one aspect of the game, but I find it tedious and punishing if you are in last place, you will continue to be in last place unless your opponents take pity on you.
My first encounter with civilisation game (ever) and it was phenomenal. I have played twice with 4 players and it took us around 8 hours to complete the game. It is long but very exciting and very strategic game.  It's also fun to explore the cards for the first time (game). :-)  Note to myself:  -unsleeved
Purchased the game, but still plastic wrapped!  Bought Mage Knight to play solo and figured I'd pick up one of Vlaada's other games to try to convince my girlfriend to play with me :)
Great game. Only shortcoming is the length - They could have decreased the amount of weak cards in order to shorten the ages
Truly epic strategy civ game! Do not play the actual board game though. Just play on the app or BGA. Unless you and your friends push cubes fast, like really fast. Or you have a lot of time and want to enjoy the passing of time... through the ages.  Oct 2020 - 9
A long story of downtime, fiddlyness and beatdown mechanics.
Great game - I do prefer nations because of less overhead and its shorter game time. However, if you have fast players who know what they are doing - I would always play this.   Also 20/10 for the digital implementation - try out the app!
The best game I ever played. So many options to win. I will probably never get bored of it.  (Note that I didnt recorded all games. I played a least 50+ games)
This epic sprawling and difficult-to-grok civ game gets an 8 from me — if I’m playing the iOS version, solo.  Zips along in around 30-45min, depending on how AP I’m getting, and I can play a full game on my commuter train.  IMMEDIATELY drops to 3 F2F, as the game length and bookkeeping become tiresome and at that point other games give the same or better experience in a shorter timeframe.
Rating is based on playing the app for this on mobile, which is lots of fun.  However, I don't think I would ever play this as a boardgame with other humans... like ever...
really, another entry for this AP prone, overly long abomination.
The revised edition of Through the Ages addresses the shortcomings of the previous game. It does a great job of capturing the epic feel of a civilization-building game without requiring 20+ hours to play.
The game is actually more like an 8 or 9. The thing is, it is so long that I can't see myself suggesting it very frequently...
The possibility of an early resignation keeps this otherwise perfect game from being a 10.
A heavy economic euro with a civ theme that I like a lot. It takes a few plays to understand which resources are important to prioritise. I'm still trying to balance it out!  Although I've never played face-to-face, I can see that it could become slightly fiddly and tedious. Against an AI it's awesome.
Awesome but heavy (as in time). Really good strategy.
It's easy to understand why this game is so well regarded. A good abstraction of the evolution of a Civilization. It's long, but it's also very entertaining, even if you're not doing great. This new edition feels more polished and cohesive.
(Played a few games online at BGA)  Didn't impress me personally. I didn't like how building military and doing military actions are implemented. You must do it because otherwise other players can hit you (too) hard but by being forced to do it ... nobody really benefits from it. Or can benefit but in limited circumstances. Those few moments when you let your guard down you can be basically be eliminated from competition and  for game that takes as long as this one, I don't like it.
Woow, długa ale super! Android łupany non stop, gra się duużo lepiej niż na stole o dziwo. zmiana 7 -> 8.5 dzięki appce
CGE's insistence on using completely non-standard card sizes is extremely annoying.
Good game, but a poor board game. Works really well as a computer game, when all the upkeep is done by the computer.
Sono riusciti nell'impresa. Migliorare un gioco a cui io avevo già assegnato 10.
Comprehensively fired by the app, which removes a good two hours of fiddling around with components.  [i]Sold[/i]
Truly amazing game. It might be annoying sometimes when playing with slower players cause they might be taking turns for too long.
NEVER PLAYED. Definitely been wanting to try this one, but I have no idea when I'll actually have a chance to play it. It looks like there will be quite a long learning curve and it's a big, complicated game anyway. Still, I'm going to have to work to make this happen someday. 
Drags on too long for me, and it's also quite a dry presentation visually, but I can see the appeal for those who like bigger engine-building games. It does provide a nice sense of progression over its length.
Great game with better artwork now. For a while Nations was competing for the Civ game spot there, but after the new edition came out, this is now set as the favorite again. 
Excellent civilization game. From the time perspective I see how much it has been lacking more variability in the leaders and wonders offer.  Luckily, this wish came true and with an extension this title is close to be a perfect strategy/tactical civilization building experience.  Final grade includes: [i]Leaders and Wonders[/i] expansion. 
I really liked the 1st Edition and this Second Edition is even better.
Clever systems help what would be a total mess under any designer actually be a pretty decent game. For me, it's a little much and the length makes it unlikely to get played again. I am simply not very good at games where you have to think 4 turns ahead just to have the resources to go for the strategy you want. Some very clever bits but not my cup of tea.
Real civilization game. Very hard for beginner to actually know what need to do for the first few games. Took me so many games to finally get a win on first place. Many cards and choice to make, different every game. I would say it is a fun game, not my favorite. But i did get addicted for awhile.
The war and agresion mecanics made this game a waste of time if you dont play to it. So all end playing to armys in a squezy economy. Boring.
Just few words are enough: even better than the previous edition! Almost perfect now.
(Digital game) This has been the only heavy game with an excellent score that I really didn't liked. Probably the unplugged version would have been a better experience
Complex game but a lot of fun once you get it down. The best player wins, very little luck involved. The online version makes this game even better.
Rating the digital app. It's addictive and really fun. I'm terrible at it, but I keep wanting to play more. Really good AI in the digital version also
No le pongo un 10 por lo difícil que es jugarlo, yo lo he jugado en steam, al menos 50 partidas y el juego cuando lo dominas es épico, muy técnico y equilibrado, puedes estar meses jugando y no te aburres. De los mejores que he jugado, muy intenso eso si
It actually is as good as everybody says. Not much to add.
The best boardgame from the best board game designer. The game can be replayed hundreds of times and you will always discover new strategies. The game has a very large and active community and probably the best mobile app boardgame implementation where the community organizes tournaments with hundreds of participants. The biggest TTA community is organized on FB here https://www.facebook.com/groups/942891812505758/
3 player is best! Hard to get to the table Same designer as Space Alert
Best board game, hands down. Fuck pandemic this is number 1.
Óptimo jogo de civilização. Demora a ser jogado ao vivo sendo mais leve de jogar no BGA. Tem mais alma do que o Nations.
I play the mobile phone app and it's great. However, playing the physical board game must be hell since you have to keep track of all the scoring point and resource mechanisms. Delegate to the app, in my opinion!
Through the Ages is a true classic of cube pushing that I came to love for some unknown reason. Well, no. Not quite true. I do know what I love about the game, the only remarkable thing is that I love it despite being such a cube pusher.  Through the Ages - A new story of civilization is a game I didn't know and didn't want to get to know because the old one was good enough for me. But now I have played it.  Let's make it short: The new edition is better. * The old graphic design had something unique that I really liked a lot. The new one is boring and average, but after about 2 minutes I came to the conclusion that the redesign is an improvement. Hell, yes! How could I be so dismissive? * It's more forgiving and less frustrating, I'm just saying "corruption." * Overall, the feel of the game is almost identical, with a few nuances that could be very important to some players. The military was restrained. Wars are not as disastrous as they used to be, aggression does not feel too nasty anymore. But that didn't change the fact that a neglect of the military can be severely punished.  One of my friends found the old version obnoxious, yet bought the new edition. And yesterday also suggested and, above all, did not ask to quit after midnight despite the considerable need to be fit for his job the next day. As I said, I found the feeling hardly different from the old TtA, but others probably take the new edition for a significant improvement.
+ it's pretty + offers multiple strategies to win + managing you civilizations always feels like you are just somehow trying to fix multiple problems starting with what currently the worst - the longer part of a player's turn takes way too much time with all the counting and minimal interaction with other, thus the rest of the group quickly becomes bored - it's almost impossible to stop someone who starts snowballing his civ - there's no "catch up" mechanic, it's actually easier to "farm" the player who's currently losing, leading to players giving up starting from the mid game
My only real complaint is very tight games can be decided by who draws the best combination of event cards for their strategy.
A deep and engaging game. However can drag a little with four players.
Too long and fiddly to play in person. Get the app.
Includes:  Sleeves Insert  [thing=280833][/thing]  This game has a learning curve, and it is going to be tougher to get to the table than some of the other games that I have rated this highly. I loved civilization building games on the computer when I was younger, and this provides that same feel for me.  Unfortunately not many people in my group are familiar with this game, and it is still a bit daunting for me to teach, but I am excited to get it to the table more!
A challenging and unforgiving game, with several interesting and interlocking mechanics. It takes a long time to play, and needs heavy bookkeeping... and in the end, it seems the ages always end too soon...
- A very great river flow card draft based game that has one of the best engine building I've played, that keeps people got to be in balanced with everything or they will be crushed very hard. The game really has a big learning curve and it's very snowball oriented. - I think it's a very well designed game, overall. Sometimes, a very small fuck up will happen in the card market but i think if you prepare carefully the need for a right card to magically spawn doesn't come up very often.
How many hours of my life have been spent on that game?! Oh my, a jewel
Way too fiddly, the system seems to be set up to confound most of your desired decisions.
The board version is very fiddly, but the app version takes all of the accounting out of the experience and lets you just play what is a truly fantastic game.
Too much to wrap my mind on. Converting population into a building? Bleh, strange.
Fixes all the issues I had with the original game, which I thought was great, but this is even better.
Played only on tablet and online. Very interesting game. Little fiddly to manage all the actions. War (or defending against it) seems too strong, never knowing what aggression cards your opponent drew. Comes a little with luck of the cards drawn. Alliances and trade are weakly implemented. Too bad the game takes so long.  Update: played a real game now. Took us almost 4 hours. Way too long for what it is. And same feeling about the event cards and war; doesn't make the game better. Building your civ is fun, but then the events can swing it too much. Pretty sure you can defend and prepare yourself against it, but that needs more play to get to know all the cards and combinations. Still a good game though!
The base of my rating is the digital version. I don't think I want to play it on the table.
Copies: All-PAX Library - 2, PAX Unplugged-only - 1.
I've played a half dozen games of this on the phone app. I'm having difficulty accessing it, to be honest. I don't have a feel for what it's about and I've yet to beat the computer. 
Lots of clever things to do, and the choices are delicious. It feels like you can't afford to fall behind anywhere. Every turn features the tradeoff between letting great cards slip by, forever gone, and building up the power of the cards you already have, resulting in really hard choices. I like all the changes and the balance in this new version, so there's no need to ever go back.
A bit long with some downtime between turns, but mostly captivating Excellent design and theme Highly variable strategy paths Mildly competitive
Awesome!  Feels so much like playing the CIV PC game.  It can be long.  But if you love CIV for the PC, the time flies.  The same is true with Through the Ages.  "Just one more turn!"    - As it is a heavy game, I'd say it's not for everyone.  Don't buy it to try it just because of it's BGG rank.  Watch playthrough videos to see if it is for you.  If you are not into heavy Euros, you will not like this game.
Great mechanics, it flows well and you actually fell like building a civilization duiring  the first two eras. But after entering the second era it  gets a little repetitive. As others have said, a lot of the time is bookkeeping. Also very long game. Easily 5 hours for two players.
Para mim provavelmente o melhor jogo que existe. O balanço que é necessário ter com a parte militar/ciência/recursos para culminar em pontos de cultura está extremamente bem conseguido. Comecei por jogar na app, que sem dúvida nos poupa de todos os pormenores qie consomem tempo, paciência e atenção. Mesmo sabendo disso, acabei por comprar o jogo físico e não me arrependo. Não é fácil coloca-lo na mesa, mas devido ao grupo com que jogo. Apesar do tempo necessário ser longo, a minha disposição é grande para dar a este jogo o tempo que ele merece. A expansão seria um bônus, mas como acontece com a maioria das expansões, o seu preço é desproporcional, ainda por cima tendo em conta que se tratam apenas de mais cartas. 
Massive amount of time to learn and play. Took 15 hrs to get through first 2 player solo game to end of age 3. Constant rules references and many details to remember. Enjoyed it, but don't know anyone who will be willing to play this marathon unless 2 ages limit will get the time down to 2-3 hrs. Update: sat on shelf for 8 months. No one wants to invest the 3-4 hrs to play so it's off to the trade pile. Rating based on extreme length of game.  Update:bought the app. Much easier to learn and play. Rating up to 7. Still not as good as Nations. Update:  stopped playing the app.  Game became tedious. 
אם יש לכם כ- 6, 7 שעות לשחק, אין כמעט משחק טוב ממנו.
The more I play this and learn the cards and the nuances of strategy, the more I love it. The app is amazing but I still greatly enjoy a live three player game of this. It is by far the best civ boardgame I have played  [b]Rating History[/b] • Original Rating: 10 on May 11, 2018 after 3 live plays and probably 50+ games on the app
I wanted to know what was with this game that brought it to the top 5 games of the Geek. But when I saw the disqusting components of the first edition I decided I didn't want to know anything else.   Then I saw the new edition by CGE and the great introductory video by gaming rules. I fell in love and ordered it imediattely (46€ is a great price by the way). I always wanted a heavy game for my collection and now I got it and I am happy with it.   The problem I had with other engine building games,was that I felt the game ended too early, before I even started to enjoy my empire. They are more like a race. The answer is Through the ages!   Yes it's very long and I know that time is precious, especially when you have a job and a familly, but that's what this is all about. That is the game's advantage, not sth that must be fixed.  Fulfilling.-   (Wife's Point of View: I never thought of teaching the game to her, but one day she saw the box and found it interesting. Maybe I will take my chances  ...and of course I won't mention anything about 3 hours playtime) 
My favourite game. Now with the expansion it's impossible for me to stop playing it through the app.
I havent played the original since 2,5 years and I can't say the differences makes any difference. The most unbalancing part of the original game was the military deck. What cards you randomly draw changes a lot what options and chances you have. They have fixed one part with the tactics, but the strength of having the right or any green cards to seed or defence/colonize cards when needed is still a randomised factor that make difference. 
App has made it rare this will ever get to the tabe
A bit loooong..... It really takes aaaages :P otherwise great! 
Essen copy which was sent to market with no handbook because Czech Games didn't have it ready on time. Happy to report customer service was very good and they are sending me the missing item :)  3 player game only to end of medieval age II took 5 hours. But we loved every second!  Downtime can be pretty bad on this game. After 4 plays - most at 4 to 6 hours we still haven't gotten to Age 3, so game length is a bit of a problem too.
Rating after 1 play, but knowing the original game. This is better looking than the older edition and a great gaming experience. Has the same feel of the original game and the military track is much improved. Update: Having played it a few times I can definitely say that this is a superb edition. On the brink to 10 for me.
Pas évident à prendre en main. Games très longue, mais en ce moment un de mes top top top jeu a deux joueurs!!!
The game is great and the thrill of doing good in the game is second to none. However, if players are not on the same level, or if a player makes a mistake/has a bad break, one might be a punching bag until the end of the game. Since the game lasts few hours, it is not really a game to play on every occasion.
Sleeved: Mayday Sails of Glory 50x75.   Expansions: New Leaders & Wonders.
Through the Ages is such a big long incredible experience. I have only played it 2 players and don't think I would want to play with more than 3. Its just such a wonderful game. Every time I play I feel really satisfied with what I have done by the end. Its a great experience. 
A very interesting game, but I had the same problem with this game as I do with Agricola, Caverna and some other games in that I never felt like I was making progress, and it was just a constant, agonizing process of trying to keep my head above water. Also a bit abstract, I would really like to have guys on a map, but I suppose that's personal preference.
Really long and complicated (2-5 hours). Lots of downtime with more than 2 players. Linear. Minimal interaction. Lack of variability. Samey over multiple plays. Cards come out in a fixed manner.
Очень высокий порог вхождения Правила, которые сложно объяснить другим игрокам Время партии
very nice game, the decision making it requires is good, good theme, feels like it could be done better in some fields (will possibly expand on that later - fell free to ask)
Have only played the digital version so far.  Not sure if the physical game would rate lower for me; it would take longer and be more fidgety, but it may feel more epic and concrete as well.  However, the digital version is such an amazing game, with so many paths to victory while you balance out what you need vs denying your opponents.  An amazing card game in which you really feel like you are building a civilization, in which all of the mechanisms seamlessly interweave in a delightful finished product.
Played board game copy, liked it, but would need a very specific opponent to enjoy this with me. Picked up iOS version and played a ton of this fantastic game. Not for everyone, I nonetheless enjoy the heck out of it. After probably 50 online plays however, I feel like I’ve explored the most of it and probably will not play again.
Vlaada Chvátil. New edition. Probably too heavy for my taste.
zakoszulkowana:  Rebel (50x73 mm) "Fenix" (5902650610217)
A civilization game with no map. Played over 4 ages each progressing closer and closer to our current time. You'll spend actions acquiring newer and better cards, upgrading your current technology, building wonders or getting new leaders. Not to mention you can wage war on other players or form pacts.  For a civilization game that looks like it would be basic, it has so many tough and interesting decisions. I do worry a touch that the weak get stomped on in this and it can be hard to recover from a war, especially if you got caught with your pants down. The trick is to keep up with military units. You don't need to be the strongest, but avoiding a large gap is key. Plus, opponents early on in this game have so much to worry about, it's tough to just focus on military and do well.  My only big beef with the game is that 4 players is quite long. Not to mention the downtime between the turns is probably too much. It plays great with 2, best with 3 and 4 is only for experienced players. I love that player count because of the dynamics behind it, but it's pretty brutal if you have to wait 15 minutes before your turn comes up. It's tough to plan as the card row shifts too much until you're next up. Great in theory, not so much in practice.  This new version cleans up the previous edition and makes a few minor (but important) rules changes. It also rebalances some of the cards. Overall, this is the version to get if you have the choice. Not a top 10 game for me, but after playing the app it really makes you appreciate the game even more.
A necessary upgrade from the older version. Gameplay is much more streamlined and cards have been seriously rebalanced, although a couple of tactics issues are still there, persisting. Still, it's clearly superior against the older version.
The best game made better. Must be a 10. I like the changes and love a new look. 
Excellent civilization game. Very close to a perfect civilization board game. The only negatives are that I miss playing with a map and being able to explore and maneuver units. As it is, the combat aspect is a little underwhelming to me, but it works, and the rest of the game is fantastic, so I'm quite pleased with it overall. It's difficult to balance everything as there is always more things that you want to do than you can. I really can't fathom the whining about playtime. It's one hour per player if you don't screw around.   Played the older version 20+ times. This is more streamlined.
The original was already great, and this is even better. Wars, card balance, and streamlined (but not simplified) upkeep have all improved on the original. Still, I don't think I could face a 4-player game face-to-face.
Only playable on the app (which is pretty good) I would rate this a 4 IRL and 6 on the app.  For me it's just way too long for what it offers.
Liked it once very much. every digital plays worsened my rating. The aggression doesn’t fit into the game imho. 
I played this few times online and twice live. There should be 2 different rating for this game.  But starting with live version first...  There are a lot of things I like about this game: how mechanics are implemented, how all actions costs etc make sense. I live balancing in this game. I am pc game fan and many mechanics resemble those I know from pc game. I might continue this rambling what I like about this game, there is a lot to like.  Civilization mechaincs are perfect 10.  What I don't like about the game are 3 things: 1. Point salad at the end of the game. I would say it is hard to follow who is actually leading untill you do final scoring. Through out 2 games it seems like and game gives 25-35% of all points. 2. Playtime - 4 players it took us 5:30 - we had players who played ti before, others (like me) where prepared and watched tutorials online (1h tutorial just to get the hang of how game flows...). 2 players 3:40 full game version. 3. Downtime - this game is so static (4 players) that in between my turns I managed to bake pizza - 10/10 homemade pizza :)  for 2 players it is a bit more dynamic.  As a live game I would say this is strong 7, online game I give it 8 as downtime is eliminated.  I think I wouldn't reject a game of Through the ages if threre wasn't an alternative, but there are games I would like to play so much more and taking into consideration how long it takes to play it, you may play 2 other games.
I've played this game well over 100 times through the app, it's a great implementation and an easy way to play a game that I've never even seen in person. The game really rewards tactical play around the card market and events, but also long term strategic play. The score track is almost a trick because in the majority of the games I've played the eventual winner was losing half way through the game.  The expansion is fantastic because the leaders and wonders are now randomized to pick among the new and old ones, so every game is much more fresh because you are forced to explore new strategies.
Based this on the app, its a wonderful and addicting game. This game is ridiculously tight and ferocious; hallmarks for any rewarding and competitive cut throat games. Sadly for my tastes, its too tight and demanding but also too abstract. Sometimes I dont imagine a civilization in front of me but an engine. I can see why this is a classic but I can only play this on certain conditions (especially if played as a board game  which is rather more brutal to play on.)  I lowered the score because its extremely unaccommodating but I still respect it.
Perfect GAME! Better than old version. --------------------------- digital version played at least hundreds of times, APP with blow ya mind!  Vlaada is Genius!
Small tweaks to the base game that address some balance issues and are a definite improvement. The original was outstanding, this one's even better.
Strategiespiel - Genial aber dauert auch minimum 3h
The game was an okay experience. I love the civilization games and this felt like an entertaining substitute at the start. I have one major critique of this game, however, and it lies in how the mechanism for combat between civilizations works. In the computer games, you can fall behind in military strength (specifically when going for a cultural or scientific victory) and make up for that by turtling, scouting, and positioning. This is not even mentioning concepts such as Defender's Advantage, specifically in reinforcements. In this game there are no such intricacies. Your opponent can set back your civilization significantly by having just one more military strength than you. This happens within the course of one turn. Rinse and repeat and you are potentially out of the game. This is an issue that hurts the experience for me. For a game with so much depth, it's a surprise to see such a facile system in place.
Best heavy game in my collection. Always played with 2 players (still yet want to try at 3 but definitely not 4) and always enjoyed it a lot.   The long playtime (by "long" I mean 3 hours average for a 2-player session) for each session hasn't affected my love for the game so far (although how much I love Star Wars: Rebellion, the long playtime of that game sometimes exhausts me in which I categorized it as a "play- only-twice-per-year kind of game). This game is not the case. Every round I always enjoy developing my kingdom/armies or picking cards for a next big turn.  The main thing I love in this game is that you have to balance 3 things, 1. The military might of your kingdom (armies)  2. The culture growth of your kingdom (VPs) 3. The science and technology advancement (upgrades)   Basically, If you invest too much in 2, you will lead in VPs but will be very vulnerable to war and aggression and you could lose the game if your VP rating is not strong enough to compensate the loss.  If you invest too much in 1, your VP rating will be low and your war and aggression may not catch up the VP gap in time if your opponent is well prepared for a defense.  If you invest too much in 3, you can easily upgrade your kingdom but may experience the shortage of resources and foods as technologies also require a worker and resource to function.  If you like a Civ game and don't mind  the upkeep phase and long play time, this is the best one in the market for you. Don't believe other comments about the game being so dry and too mean. Try it for yourself once, this game definitely deserves a try!
I wish I would have more people to play this with. My gaming group is formed of 4 people, and this is just too much for this game. Still, I would never refuse a game of Through the Ages! 
I like the game but the length and the complexity bugs me
Way to much downtime, also didn't like the endgame rush to build up military. The lack of a map probably helps te game, but I think Civ-games need a map.  Otherwise a well designed and balanced game. If Civ games is your thing you'll like this one.
Played on app. Tough.  Seems like golf...have to play a ton to get really good at it but not fun enough to play a ton.  Also seems like upkeep might be a bear without the help from the app.
Addicted. Played hundreds of times on Steam. Different ways to win but everyone needs production, science, and food --- though you can still find ways even if you missed early opportunities (for example if you missed grabbing food technology, then prioritize colonies). When someone else has the leaders, building combinations, or wonders that make their culture un-catch-able, just go military (probably the most satisfying way to win...)
(5+ plays) Great game of civilization that represents all of the things you want to do in a civilization game.  It is fun, and you get a sense of accomplishment as you advance your nation.  On the minus side, it goes long, and if you don't keep up on military, you can become a punching bag in too deep a hole to climb out of.
Just some notes... I have just started playing through the ages. I have to say, the game started off with more complexity than what I have experienced in any other game before. However, through the ages provides an unique experience. One is continuously busy during the game. Even though this first game took more than 6 hours and was not even completely finished, I was not bored for one second. There are just so many things to do and discover. Although the game looks quite abstract, the theme was very much alive during the game. 
حسین کافه گیک گفت خوبه ولی خیلی طول می‌کشه و کسی بازی نمیکنه
A lot of impressions after 1 play:  + explaining of the rules didn't take that long (but we both played civ games before, so were familiar with concepts as leaders, ages,...) + it's really cutthroat: it feels like you wanna do X things but your stone and/or food and/or science lets you do only X-3 (and if you have enough resources for doing X, you'll probably won't have enough action cubes :s) + Our game (with 2 all new) took 3 hours, but it certainly didn't feel like 3 hours - How often will you play this game? With my cult-of-the-new urge, I'll be happy if I can play this once a year. And preferably you wanna play this with the same player  - I say player, because this is a 2-player game at max, unless you like SM, then  I can recommend a 4-player game - Exclude all the players in your playing group who suffer from AP, even if it's only a little bit 
I can rate it 8 after two plays, but I suspect my rating will increase after a few more games.
I like some of the changes and dislike others.  still a great game.  plays: 1
10/10 Board game and would highly suggest it for any player.
Can't get enough of this game! Love the complexity and replayability. Every game is different, you always have to adjust with the cards that are dealt. Definitely my favorite game.  *Sleeved
One of the most playable and re-playable board games for the serious gamer.  The complexity is in the choices, not in the minutia of the rules.  With the building of each civilization there is a sense of accomplishment whether one wins or loses. (though it is better to win!)
Excellent civilization game, an incredible amout of options in the 4 ages, the mechanic of evolution and construction of your empire it's amazing and the military and colonization part creates very good interaction in a game with 3 ou 4 players, because in a 2 player game it can be to agressive because the military power it's very important in this game and the player with that advantage can creat a lot of destruction with the war, agressions and political evnts.
Apps : Incredible civilisation game. Apps kills the board game.
Good game! Unfortunately very long and the upkeep between round is fiddly. A great experience if you are willing to play for several hours Update 2023: Very pleasant to play online
Like Civilization, and this one is not in our playgroup...
Great game but it gets repetitive quite fast because you keep going through the same cards over and over again. Should have a bigger card pool so that some can be randomly removed each game for added replayability. Also the game itself is too long and quite hard to teach/learn.
Now this is a game to behold! I was excited when I bought it, baffled when I opened it, scared when I was learning it, but truly ecstatic when I finally brought it to the table!  The game is instantly overwhelming, with multiple points to track and markers to update each turn. There is a lot going on - creating resources, increasing the population and keeping it happy, avoiding an uprising, controlling corruption, manufacturing military units, upgrading multiple technology trees, managing military conflicts and finally purchasing and managing cards of multiple types. It is basically a computer game in which you control all the aspects of the game manually. Each turn. Getting into this is hard, but once you get the hang of it you can only kneel down and praise the game.   All of its mechanics are woven together seamlessly, the gameplay flows like liquid honey and you can only be amazed with how smooth the game is. Many elements work together to create a demanding, unforgiving but ultimately fascinating and rewarding game. Once you're done with your first five-hour play you can sit back and relax - you've achieved something really worthwile.  My best recommendation for learning TTA is this: buy the mobile/PC version of the game. The included tutorial will teach you in a way no YouTube video can. After that you can play with an AI opponent, honing your skills and deepening your understanding of the game and finally you can play against real players. Once you have a few games under your belt it will be easy for you not only to play the physical game but also teach it to new players.  It really is a gamers game, but after a little practice (and with some dedication!) even Sunday players can enjoy it. It certainly is one of the finest games available, with an amazingly designed mechanism and great replayability. Definitely a must-have for your collection!
One of the best games I have played. Amazing mechanics. Takes a time to master, multiple ways of playing. A must own.
Fantastic civilization game, a must have for civ lovers.
Good game and I enjoyed playing it.  does it deserve to be number 2 on the rankings?  Not so sure about that.  May need to play a few more times and adjuster my ranking accordingly.  Does deserve to be a top 100 though
Wonderful game. I get the same impression while playing the first Civilization computer game. Pure magic!!!  I LOVE THIS GAME.  The best game ever. Unfortunately there's some downtime when playing with four. You have to keep time discipline (we bought DGTCube to keep track of time - works quite well)
The ultimate civilization game. Steep learning curve and definitely not for the casual gamer. But once it all clicks (and you'll need to persist for 2-3 games for that to happen) it is one of the most rewarding game experiences out there. Several brilliant mechanics carefully tied together to make the theme really come alive. See my rating as a 9.5 - it would be a 10 but for the huge playtime that keeps it from hitting the table.
App Only...but I love it.   Truthfully I don't have a desire to play it in person.  That's the only reason I don't rank it 10. 
Played online.  It's interesting, but seems waaaay too fiddly for a board game.  Clearly meant to be a Civ copy and evoke that.  Can't imagine that it would be SUPER engaging in person, but seems cool enough to play online sometimes.
A massively enjoyable title for history lovers taking up around 120+ mins for a non-newbie 2 player session. Always a delight to play but sadly hard to find the time to do so.
Great game, but just a bit too long. We hardly ever have the time to play this in one go, and we can't leave it on the table to finish the next day because the cat will destroy our whole civilization by that time. 
Feels more steamlined than the original but has many of the same balance problems. Dislike.  Rating down from 6.5 --> 2. Overpowered military ruins the game.  (Original rating from 2/2016)
Game is awesome but I prefer to play online. Game maintenance takes too long. Sold.
Une contribution de [url=https://boardgamegeek.com/user/JoelFabienLavoie][i]Joēl Lavoie[/i][/url]
Themeless euro point salad. It might be about anything. Not a bad game, but terribly overhyped.  It has many advantages: - tight economics - it is way more strategic than tactical  But who cares? The gameplay for me is meh.
Bertus (long game, strategy, battles) Have electronically 
The most amazing game about civilization development I have played so far. Mechanical details, they make thematic sense. Which makes it a great game.   
El mejor juego de mesa que he jugado. Profundo, con un diseño precioso que te ayuda a no tener que consultar apenas las reglas. 10/10
not easy to learn, lots to control, easy to forget about something, requres lots of time(few games at least) to learn cards and how to earn points, prepare and modify strategies
10+ plays online.  Balanced and satisfying build up.
Fair system, good detailed Same as playing alone with 3 other players at the same room Better to play computer alone at home seriously btw to much score for this poll this just prove that the poll on this site is for kid....
This is a long, complicated feast of a game. The 120 minute playing time listed in its profile makes me laugh. However, it's worth it. I prefer the game at two players. At four players, the game stretches beyond 8 hours, and there's too much down time.
P: 2-4, T: 3-4 hrs (>1 hr/player) Heavy cube pusher, tons of cards, thorough (involving vs engaging? complex vs fiddly?) Civ/engine Builder. Streamlined 2.0 version. -Solitare experience unless you play aggressively (carebears in the group?), Over an hour per player. Play time is probably just too long to justify. Little catch-up mechanism for a long game, dog piling on weakest player rewarded (optimization)  Update: Own Android App, this was the right call. It is a pretty brilliant game, but I can't see ever owning this and pushing cubes around all afternoon. My rating, as an app I'd give it 8.5, physical game 6.5, so I averaged it out.
Similar to civilization games, but without map (no tactical game). Really recommended for those liking long civ games. I find it great at 2 players, but it shines with more players.  Different to other civ games, this one focuses on your nation and developing economics, military, culture and govern. No map, no tactical battles, etc.
This is a card driven civilization game where players use a limited supply of action tokens to take cards and add them to their tableaus or spend them on cards in their tableaus to activate those cards. What you are essentially doing is trying to move your markers up on various tracks in relationship to other players. Then event cards reward you or punish you for your relative position. The most crucial track is the raw points income track. I found cards that give significant improvements on this track to be somewhat rare, and hard to construct when you did get them. Most of these cards require a lot of stone, which is a resource another type of building produces.  My second play of this game took about 5.5 hours plus about an hour of rules with 2 players. In that play, I would up missing the 2 stone production building. I wasn’t worried, thinking I would grab the 3 stone building when it finally hit the conveyor belt of cards but due to the random element inherent in a card driven game, the 3 stone card didn’t come out until late into the pile, and despite having a ton of 1 stone production buildings, I fell impossibly behind my opponent in points income. To compensate, I pushed into Military, thinking that If I could hit my opponent with the negative effects of the events it would provide me a catch-up opportunity, but the game has a very odd mechanism for military. You get a separate, much smaller budget of action markers for recruiting military units, and spending to play military event cards. Additionally at the end of your turn, you draw new cards from the event deck equal to the number of unused military actions you have. This meant that I was spending my military actions to build up forces, and my opponent meanwhile was able to fill his hand with either high scoring non-military events he could seed into the events deck, or high value defense cards he could use to counter my aggression and war cards. The result was a lot of failed actions and frustration on my part, as I led on the military track through the entire game, but in 6 hours only got the benefits of hitting my opponent once. My opponent said that by not spending his military actions he also was drawing enough cards that he saw a lot of cards that would have been powerful for me go by and he was able to just discard them. Luck of the draw here also didn’t help me, as I often times would only draw peaceful events and I didn’t much to help my strategy.  I enjoyed a lot of the process of this game. I liked the way the cubes moved around the board meaning different things in different places. I liked the card drafting mechanism. I enjoyed the theme. The game also reminded me of a lot of games I’ve really loved in the past, however the downtime between turns is extremely long, and for the overall length of the game I’m not thrilled with the luck driven elements.   :star: Art, Iconography and components functional :star: Clever or interesting mechanisms :nostar: Reasonably low downtime between turns with mildly AP players :star: Multiple plays stay interesting :nostar: Low or mitigatable luck elements :star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: Raw enjoyment
A fantastic game that I will always be willing to play. When my friends can't get together in person, I try to push for an async game in the digital version -- and when they can't play, I'm playing vs the AI.  The sense of progression through the ages is palpable. There's the right amount of randomness, while still feeling like you control your destiny.   Despite having no shared map, you are constantly watching what other players are doing and comparing their science/culture/mineral/food production compared to yours. A slight shift of military power of one player leads to a domino of implications for every else at the table.  And it's not even that hard to play, because the available set of moves is fairly limited at the start and grows organically over the course of the game.  The "Weight" on BGG is probably justified for a table of players brand-new to the game -- but just having a single experienced player help with the bookkeeping for the first few rounds makes the learning experience quite gentle in my opinion.   Lots of little "bits" to setup when starting a new session, but otherwise this is my perfect game.
TtA's major problem for me are some of the military cards and the whole military thing, which isn't quite well solved and hence kind of breaks off the game, indeed.  It's just silly having such devastating effects like having to "destroy" (not "damage", no, DESTROY!) up to two urban buildings, which not only costed you a fortune to build (and will cost again the same to rebuild, and at the very moment you should be building something else instead!), but they also provided you with a fundamental resource like "science", which you won't be producing ever again in the next 5 rounds or so (not at least in the amounts that you need at that stage of the game), and by the time you do, it will be already too late. Suffer that (a stupid "incursion") and it's nasty "destroy" effect will put you instantly and de facto out of the match (which isn't short, by the way). This is in fact a "Player Elimination" mechanic disguised with a "hey, but you can keep going on and suck for the rest of the match, if you wish". So, be unable to defend from a stupid "incursion" and prepare to resign (or stay as a zombie civilization until the end. That is, with the illusion of being "alive", but totally unable to ever really catch up with your oponents). Too harsh nasty effects in many of those military cards ruine the game experience for at least one of the players, always.  Oh, then there is this whole "colonizing" thing and LOSING the military units used for that and hence becoming weaker and vulnerable just for "colonizing". I mean, come on... Shouldn't it be the other way around? The thing is, the benefits those territories give won't look after your ass the next round. And yes, more often than not you'll rather pass than colonize a thing.  I am in love with the "building" aspect of TtA, I just DISLIKE too much its "destroying" aspects. They don't seem to have been thought of too much, honestly. I would rather that incursion card be about "damaging" buildings/units, lowering their production by 1 or 2, not "destroying" them and leaving you unable to produce a super necessary thing to recover (like science!), or leaving you very unprotected if it's a military unit lost colonizing a territory which benefit won't instantly protect you from a more than likely coming agression or war.  It's hard to say but for me TtA just seems to have skipped some betatesting, and that's hard to forgive in a second "revised" version (a "new" story of civilization) as this is.  And somebody explain to me why on earth do players need to rely on their LUCK wether or not they get the CHANCE to develop a farming/mining technology of the new era. Sorry, Vlaada Chvatil, but that's also a big flaunt of your TtA.  Last (and probably least) I think there are much better ways to keep track of things. Really. While I like very much the new art on the cards and tableaus (the old version was AWFUL in this area) I just still dislike the huge tracking modular boards (in different sizes each, geez...) They make no sense to me at all. Please let the "Gaia Project" player tableaus inspire you to this respect!? They properly keep track of 4 things at a time in a single tiny space! You don't need that huge area to count up to 150!
Excitement 7 Strategy 10 Interaction 7 Balance 10 Replayability 7 Theme 9 Components 8 Time investment 5.5 
Through the Ages - How to Play https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qfotOEHxFTk Through the Ages - How to Play - Part 2 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=19Th_LuCt5U Through the Ages - Changes in New Edition https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T68FtQvOFkw
Zwei Infos vorweg. Erstens: dieses Spiel ist absolut genial und rein mechanisch ein Meisterwerk des Brettspielens. Zweitens: ich hasse lange Spiele! Und nochmal aufgedröselt: ich hatte beim Spielen das Gefühl, dass ich ein wirklich ausgereiftes Spiel spiele, bei dem jeder Zug Folgen hat und jede Aktion irgendwie clever mit einer anderen Karte verzahnt ist. Das Bilden der Begegnungsstapel ist wirklich eine klasse Mechanik und man hat immer einen Plan, den man verfolgt. Gefällt mir. Aber wenn ein Spiel über 3 Stunden dauert (und drunter wird man es selbst zu zweit kaum schaffen) und wenn ich andauernd das Gefühl habe, einen riesengroßen Fehler gemacht zu haben, eben weil ich 30 Ressourcen habe, die ich aber nicht einsetzen kann- dann fuckt mich das wahnsinnig ab und ich habe auch nicht so richtig Spaß. Wirklich, ein bahnbrechend gutes Spiel, welches für meinen überschaubaren Intellekt aber leider eine Nummer zu viel ist. Wird nochmal gespielt, aber niemals den Weg in meine Sammlung finden.
played the physical version for the first time, digital version helps to bookkeep so much that i don't even know some rules exist.
a really nice game.. not sure how much the game is luck depended... other then that.. a lot of dead time...
Imprescindible. Muy buena app para el juego online.
Digital Version  Not tracking plays. Likely have played the digital version 20 or so times since picking it up.  Make that like 70 or so  Easily my most played game. The app is very well done and the game is suburb
Excellent Game. I've played a few on the tabletop and twice as much on the app. Always finding new approaches to Civ building.
Great but in the end it's still a simple card-drafting engine-builder.
[b][url=https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/1553900/radio-review-96-through-ages-new-story-civilizatio]Radio Reviews - Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization[/url][/b]
Nunca había jugado a nada de civilizaciones. A todos nos ha encantado.
owned: digital version Best classic civ feeling in board games so far.
Beware: It's true that physical games of this take forever. Production is sufficient, as is graphic design and art. The game is very repetitive, mechanically, but it manages to keep you on your toes because you need to take care of every single aspect of your civilization if you don't want to be left behind. Some games are very interesting and balanced but most of the times everyone quits because someone just got very ahead of everyone else.
As a competitive game, it's definitely one of the best of all time, no doubt. However, as a game for fun, it has problems. First off, the game takes a really long time (not so much in the digital version though). I find that when it gets to Age 3 everyone is really tired, sometimes out of the game mentally. And also, for a game that takes this long, it's too easy to fall behind and not have any chance to win anymore, and that is especially not fun when everyone keeps using their Aggression or War cards on you, and you can't do anything about it. Overall, I would recommend this game heavily for people who enjoy deep competitive games, but not so much if you're not one of a heavy strategic mind (and are not afraid to admit that).
[i][u]Disclaimer:[/u][/i] This is a [color=#000099][b]standalone game[/b][/color]. Its rating is based on [color=#000099][b]desire to play[/b][/color].  I have played exactly one game of [b]Through the Ages[/b]. It was enough to understand that while very rich and thematic, the game is too long for what it is.  Quite interestingly, I learned how to play watching a Youtube video that was filmed on the app, and the game felt smooth and quite engaging. But when we started playing with the boardgame, it became obvious that the turns were quite a tedious affair with almost as much bookeeping as decision making.  On top of that, we played as a 4-player group which is deemed "not recommended" by a imposing 30% of voters here on BGG. I understand this made the game longer which probably exacerbated my frustration, compounded by the fact that I was losing. Unfortunately, I'm usually not a sore loser and so I think my issue with the game lies deeper than that : an over-fiddliness that makes you spend more energy micro-managing your different cubes than planning the glory of your civilization.  However, the community rating can't be a complete fluke, and I can feel there is a great game underneath it all (it's a Vlaada Chvatil creation, after all). My rating reflects that: I would very much try and play again, preferably with 2 or 3 players, and see if the game speeds up and really does become more enjoyable.
Amazing game, if i were to nit pick, you have to be familiar with the last Age or else you won't come out much in point. Highly recommended, definitely a game not to be played once but multiple times.
Very, very long game. Boring and tedious, A 3 person game took 5 hours (first play for me) and after 2 hours I was really longing for the finish.  The game is complex and might be balanced, although a strong military throughout seems to be an important part of a winning strategy.  The artwork is  nice but is not clear enough: the game contains a lot of cards from which to choose and a lot of new choices are added every turn (civil cards). Many civil cards have little or no artwork supporting readability: tiny or no clear icons which help you understand what the card does in one glance (especially leaders and action cards).  The amount of cards changing each turn and other events that can impact your choices, make it hard to prepare in advance and a player's turn takes a long time. Together this causes enormous amounts of down time, during which you are just watching another player think.  A lot of accounting is needed every turn and especially the military strength is easy to lose track of: the strength can be influenced by many factors and it is easy to overlook something.  The events of Age I and II especially are tailored for players with a strong military mostly and only those players will add cards to the event deck. The events happen several turns later, but other players have no way of knowing what is possibly going to happen, which adds a big random factor for them. This is a big handicap for the current weakest player who is less likely to add event cards to the pile and for who as a consequence all events are a big surprise.  it is most rewarding to play aggressive cards against the weakest player, pushing them down further. There is little room for a decent comeback, which is terrible for a game that lasts so many hours.  The three players of my first game finished not too far apart in the end, but I have seldom been happier to finish a game. If you like accounting, this could be your game, but I do not understand how this game gets the rating it currently has on BGG. We also noticed several times that things were miscalculated and had to recalculate, sometimes rewinding a turn because it influenced a lot.  I play board games often and like games with some depth, but this game is tedious and repetitive rather than an interesting challenge.
新版只玩过电子版，结算什么的比实体版要方便多了。从桌游角度来看，宏大的历史厚重感，延续几个时代的规划布局是其他桌游难以替代的。但只就电子版来说，对于先接触《席德梅尔的文明》系列的我来说，只是文明5和文明6的下位替代罢了。
I have a very high expectation on this new version though the old version is nearly perfect game.
The boardgame is too bookkeeping-intense, and that's the only downside: tossing resources around is tiring and cause mistakes. The app is superb.
Have only played the digital version, which is seriously addictive. I must have racked up 150 plays. The expansion keeps it fresh. So much depth for the play-length. I imagine playing the physical version would be a different story.
Amazing game! It's complex, but very nice to play. Reserve 4-5 hours if you want to play it. One of the best games ever released.  I rated it as 8 because 4 hours is too much time to me.
One of the deepest, more engaging and satisfying games ever. Kudos to Vlaada. We've played it more than a hundred times and can't get enough. The art and components are okay. The balance of resources, science, building, military and culture is just perfect. The vast amount of cards allow for many fine and subtle strategic combinations, but you also must be watchful of other players evolution and react to it. It is a long game, but time flies quickly when playing it and before you realize it all eras are gone. Wonderful. 
Dec 3 2020 - finished 31 games the past 2 months. Love it.
A bit obscure; it's difficult for me to understand the strategy in this game. I'm glad to play it, but it's definitely not my go-to.
A masterpiece. Best game I have ever played. Only negative is that due to its length it is hard to get to the table.
This is a much better version than the original. The components are a lot better and the game play has been updated.  I enjoyed this version way more than when I played the original.
There is no doubt this is a well designed game with an epic scope. There is plenty going one and tons of choices to make. Lots of strategy and depth to be had here. Which should make it a game that I just love.   But after playing my first time, I am not really wanting to rush to play again. For starters, the game felt a bit too long--although I have other games I willingly play for three plus hours, this one started to overstay its welcome a bit for me. Next, during the entire game I couldn't help but feel that I'd be better off playing it digitally. A good portion of the actual game is just updating your resources and rankings, essentially just doing bookkeeping. Many games have some element of that, but Through the Ages has a bit too much of it compared to actual game decisions to be great in my opinion. I have heard an app is supposed to be on its way and I suspect that would be my preferred way to play this. It just seems to be a bit too ambitious of a board game, straining up against what players can reasonably keep track of while still having fun.   So all around, it's a very good game, but at least for me personally the length and bookkeeping aspects of it make me often want to grab for something else.   Update: Lowering from a 7 to a 6 on the back of several plays in the app. The app is great, I would rate it very highly. And this game still does have a lot of interesting strategic depth for those who wish to explore it.   But the app has confirmed my thoughts above: The actual board game is so much bookkeeping and not playing. The playtime on the app is blisteringly fast, and it takes care of all the calculations for you making for a much better experience. It reveals to me how much time playing the game in real life is spent on simply calculating the values and moving the cubes around correctly. It's still a pretty interesting game, but not one that I often want to play in real life. 
Slight tweaks make this version even better than the original. Fantastic civilization building game. 
Juegamestore (Spain) W/ expansion (New Leaders and Wonders) Sleeved  New edition of Through The Ages, with improved components and much better mechanics. One of the best games of all time and maybe my nº1 game.  TtA>CoC>Sid Meyers>Patchistory - but I love them all
Tudom, hogy tízes! :D Ez kicsit sem lehet rosszabb, mint a 2006-os. Támogatom a magyar kiadást!
Juego al estilo Age of Empires o Civilization. Fácil de aprender mecánicas, pero complejo para sacar el máximo partido de las opciones
+ [thing=280833]New Leaders and Wonders[/thing] + [thing=196016]Acrylic Overlay[/thing] + [thing=334015]Folded Space Insert[/thing]
At first this game was really intimidating, even just the layout of the rulebook (three colums of small text on every single A4 page... ugh). But when I finally got chance to learn it (1v1, me vs me) and after first real match against other human player, I really was in love.   Extra heavy and meaty game, really makes your head spin. When playing 1v1 game has this kinda sweet abstract feel to it. I think its worth of your time and money... after third age when all is said and done you really feel like Einstein.
There's a lot I want to share about this game. More than most games I've played. First of all, I am giving it a '7', so it is a good game, but not a great game, in my opinion. Some thoughts:  #1: Downtime is a serious problem for this game, even with just two players. We were both pulling out phones during the other player's turn. With four, I can see downtime being truly unbearable (unless you were playing this game while doing something else at the same time). You can't even really plan your turn in advance as the card river is changing all the time.  #2: This is a two-player game that takes 3-4 hours (and more with 3 or 4 players). There are so many other two player games that I would much rather play in that amount of time than this game. If I have that amount of time. I would want to play something rich with theme and more tension, such as War of the Ring or Twilight Struggle or A Few Acres of Snow.  #3: I want this to be a fun four player game, but I honestly don't see how that is possible with the amount of downtime it would cause. A two-player civilization game isn't a need for me. Is it a need for anyone?! If we're going to build civilizations, there should be multiple players interacting. 1 vs. 1 is not the right setup for a civilization game.  #4: It takes a long time to learn the rules and edge cases for the game you ultimately end up playing. The rulebook is helpful, but it's a 24-page walkthrough of a sample game, and that takes easily 90-120 minutes to go through, and then you still don't have all the edge cases right. I had to read both manuals, and then watch a play through video...twice before I could confidently jump in and run a game, and even then, I was looking up special cases the entire game. And, I am the guy who plays GMT and Avalon Hill games, so complexity doesn't scare me easily. It was frankly exhausting to learn this game for the level of fun payoff after it all.  #5: This should not be ranked as the #2 game on BGG. I am perplexed by this. Not because of my own personal opinion of the game as a '7', but because there is no way that the community actually believes this is the #2 game, especially in light of Pandemic Legacy being #1. Through the Ages checks all of the Euro boxes, but...it's 3-4 hours long, at least, and I honestly do not see a large community of gamers for this on a regular basis. You can respect it for what it is, but I really think this is overrated, even by those who like it more than me.  So, with all my negative feedback above, why give it a '7'? Well, because it is a good game (just not a great game). I am keeping it in my collection, but it's probably my lowest rated '7' in my collection, barely avoiding getting sold.  It will take a very special set of circumstances for me to pull it off the shelf and play it again. Those circumstances will happen again sometime, but I see this getting played 1-2 times a year, at most, and more than likely 1-2 times every couple of years. I would rather play this as an iPad game with a group of friends over a month or two of time than in a single session.
Outcompeted by Sid Meier's Civilization: New Dawn. Also, incredibly dry.
This has way too many bits to play in person, but the app makes it amazing.  The bit moving is too much for in person play.
After 5 years of play, literally I "always enjoy playing". Deep strategy, subtle tactics. Every game is different Good at 2, 3, 4 players, it is a different game indeed at each number of players. Very seasoned players can have a 3 player game in 2 hr playtime First 3-5 games will be very long, and seem as "almost solo play" or slow. Not at all, once you can play well. Forget about others ... and lose if any other one does not.
Definitely feels like the board game of Civilization, with its many facets to juggle. The only reason I didn't go for 10 is because of the inordinate length and downtime of 4 player.
Epic, but also very long. I can see why it’s at the top of the BGG lists.
A good game.The only reason I gave it 9.5 is the fact that leaders survive 2 ages. I know that otherwise you'll need to change it fast but from thematic point this make no sense.
I really enjoy tableau/engine building games and here I really liked building part, as always, I am not fan of military aspects in these type of games, but I get that it is part of it. I thought it would be more rules-heavy, but to start easy-going game, I think it is very streamlined and clean, I went in game knowing very little, still understood most of moving parts from symbology, also BGA online implementation helps with it. Also it is not really new-player friendly, as regular TTA players would have better knowledge of cards and events, that might give leg-up, but I think this is game that can get better and more addictive with plays.
Maybe one day I will give it a proper comment, but in the two games I tried (both 4p) the downtime & playtime killed it for me. There's just no reason to sit there for 5 hours doing essentially the same thing over and over, because the only thing that changes are the numbers. If you find it exciting to produce 3 resources with a worker instead of 1 in Age 3, then by all means, go for it. (Hopefully you also don't mind sitting out a game that went badly for you, with no chances to come back, because it will happen to someone sometimes.)  There is a good game in there, but it's not a game for five hours with considerable downtime. You can do the same thing in a shorter timespan, with less downtime and more excitement in, say, a game of "Nations". Never tried the older design, but I'm astounded how dated the new version feels. They ain't making games like this anymore, and for a good reason. I know there's a huge crowd of fans of this one, but I'm staying away.
This has dethroned Innovation as my favorite game ever. The original was excellent but this is somehow even better! 
Another slow grow that requires a lot of practice. It can be long and fiddly and break apart midway with no chance of comeback but for the tighter runs it's a great game. It kind of reminds me of a longer fiddlier Le Havre but the options are more interesting with an elastic resource dynamic. Still, this game is a bit too hardcore for me to really love though I still enjoy and recognize it as a great game.
This is a really great game. I suppose it is just a giant spreadsheet but I really do feel like I am building up a civilisation and its fun to watch it grow and develop.  It is satisfyingly thinky to play and works really well with two players. Even at that player-count games take a full evening and that's a shame because it undoubtedly stops this getting played more. 
Play the App, forget the physical board game. App is a 10 and has made the game completely obsolete.
TTA is a good but old game and you realize that during the playthrough. Many other games had copied several mechanics of TTA, maybe that's why I have the impression that I had played it already.  + artwork in general is beautiful + you really feel developing your civ + epic  - Downtime a.a. in the end [-0,5] - too long - cubes are not very handy (material) [-0,5] - too much focus on military - difficult to catch the leader [-1] In general I would love to play it again, I guess every 1/2 year a full session would satisfy my desire to play a great civ game like this. On the other hand I really do not understand why TTA is currently #2 on BGG?!  = 8 points  *collection of Falko-Mexiko
Have played this countless times online async.  Love it to pieces.
Bought without a full (3 age) play. Loved playing older version on line but felt Wars/military over-powered to point of breaking. New version supposedly addresses this.
Played only on the app (fortunately). It's impressive what it manages to do using only cards but it is quite fiddly for no good reason. I prefer other civilization games that use a board like civilization new dawn or the original sid Meier's.
Very complex, and decently fun, but I'm not a huge fan of civilization games. Probably a too complex for an average game night.
A few minor changes make this a significant improvement on the older editions.
24/09/17: Two plays. If I'd have played most other games that lasted this long, my body would have screamed out. I just didn't notice as the engagement is so strong. I want to play this all day.  21/01/18 - 44 plays: Can't. Play. Enough.
Sold it due to playing it preferably digital as it is way quicker and easier to get into.
Used to be my favourite and it is still an amazing game. Still engaging after +150 plays (including plays from app)
I find most Civ games long, clunky, and unintuitive. This is far from the worst of them, but it's also far from my favorite. 
Very good game. It reflects economic, cultural and military aspects using mainly cards, little cubes and mainly coefficients. It is well balanced, altough there are some ways better than others to win. An experienced player will usually be better than the new one.
The most brilliant game I have ever played. The rules are a bit hard but playing the game properly is way more harder. And that is fun!
The game play is wonderful.  Nice variance in games and many different strategies to use.  The only drawback is the quality of the game pieces (take that with a grain of salt, I'm very much used to FFG quality), and more noticeable to me is the poorly engineered layout.  The play area doesn't 'fit' well.  All the of boards work very well though, my criticism is a purely aesthetic one.
Not my kind of game, first match in 3 took almost 7,5h and the game never let you feel in control of the whole nation you are doing your best to control. Surely Great game and loved simple mechanics, but not my favourite for sure
Not sure how to rate this game.  It's quite deep, and I can see the satisfaction to be had in the level of depth and complexity available here.  Unfortunately these types of games tend to require several plays before you can even hope to have a chance to do well.  I play with such a variance of players that I cannot expect to get the consistency to get into this type of game.  For this reason, I've chosen to keep my experience with this game to the app, which seems to be quite good.  I'm not nearly good enough at the game to truly enjoy it; but I can see it becoming enjoyable with enough experience.  N/A [b]Components[/b] N/A [b]Artwork[/b] :star::star::halfstar::star::nostar: [b]Mechanics (general gameplay "fun")[/b] :star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: [b]Rules (easy to learn/teach)[/b] :star::star::star::star::nostar: [b]Replay Value[/b] N/A [b]Player Uptime[/b] :star::star::star::star::halfstar: [b]Meaningful Decisions (luck factor)[/b]
A tad fiddly, but basically the ultimate civilization builder. It lacks a map but makes up for it with an intricate network of 8-dimensions in your abstracted civilization, tightly balanced technologies, and a set of Leaders and Wonders that keeps the imagination scheming for ways to improve your next game.
Our copy has been opened, set up, and never played. We got briefly addicted to Through The Ages on BGA, which realistically for this game works a lot more smoothly than tabletop.
It has a lot going on for it and I can understand why it receives so much love. It just doesn't grab onto me in a significant way. I have only played the app for it, as that was the recommended way to try it, and I only found myself playing until I beat another player online. I was told subsequent plays would make the game eventually come to life as I saw more of the cards. This has yet to be the case and I find myself just going through the motions.    Definitely worth a try though, because it will very likely be well loved for quite some time.
I've played this twice - once as four-player and once as three-player.  In short, it's an amazingly well-designed, slick, replayable and thoughtful game BUT suffers horrbily from huge downtime and relentless 'mathiness'.  Here's some detail:  There is a lot of downtime. Using the downtime to calculate your next turn's actions is difficult because it will usually depend on cards whose availability can change with every players' actions. Unless you're a genius who can accurately predict what actions other players will perform, it can be easier to avoid the headache and wait until it's almost your turn before planning your actions in detail.  The downtime is especially frustrating because this game offers relatively little player interaction (it feels a bit solo). Many other games with a solo feel at least have the advantage of meaning you can plan your moves without waiting for other players. Not so here.  Snowballing might be an issue. The strong engine-building aspect means it's possible to fall behind irrecoverably. Certain parts of the game (military, events) also seem to result in greater damage to players who are already behind (although there are occasional, small balances to that).  You have to play in a very 'efficient' style. It's all about trying to make every cube and relevant card count every turn, with no wastage. So be prepared to do a lot of math in your head every turn. Personally, I prefer games with a lot of choices but not where 75% of each choice is math (i.e. not this one!).  Apart from the above concerns, it's mostly an excellently designed game. There are plenty of choices and it feels elegant, despite some fiddly bookkeeping. The way you have to 'design yourself' out of problems is smoothly done and will impress most people who like a strong puzzle aspect to their games.   There's a mercifully small amount of text to read on cards and it's not difficult to scan the game table to see what's available and to broadly see what other players have got.  There are some clever systems that will appeal to more devious players. Interesting things are possible with hidden cards in your hand. Long-term sneakiness is enshrined in the way that 'event' cards are played face-down, only to activate themselves later in the game ... like 'selective' timebombs waiting to go off.  I remain slightly concerned that the game 'plays itself' to a degree. The player has the task of doing all the working-out, which can be heavy, yet the actual strategies can be fairly obvious - being based on what's available. (They're probably still much more interesting than those of 90% of games out there. This is the sort of high-quality game that makes you yearn for perfection).   Still, an impressively put together game which will leave you proud if you win.  Also if you like Vlaada's other game Mage Knight then you might like this. It's a very different game but in some ways they both have the same feel, with some similar-ish systems and the same kind of 'zen epic journey' vibe.
Played once.  Didn't like the game so much, don't know but there seems to be always _one_ thing in Vlaada Chvátil games which adds maybe too much complexity or it just doesn't fit the game (in the theme or for the actions).  Maybe someday will play again and change my mind.
Complex, very replayable.  Better for those happy to sit out a very long game, especially when first learning.  I want to play it again!
[size=9][c](15x) ENJOYMENT:                         Forgettable    :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: Outstanding (10x) DEPTH (IN RELATION TO COMPLEXITY): Lacking        :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star: Meaty  (5x) LUCK FACTOR:                       All Luck       :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: All Skill  (3x) REPLAYABILITY:                     Nil            :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar: Limitless (10x) MECHANICS:                         Boring         :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: Interesting  (4x) PLAYER INTERACTION:                Low            :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: High  (4x) PLAYER COUNT PERFORMANCE:          Not Balanced   :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: Balanced  (2x) GAME LENGTH:                       Too Short/Long :star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar::nostar: Just Right  (2x) CLARITY OF RULES:                  Mud            :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar::nostar: Crystal  (5x) COMPONENT QUALITY:                 Cheap          :star::star::star::star::star::star::star::star::nostar::nostar: World Class  INITIAL RATING (sum(Criteria Rating x Criteria Weight)/Total Weight) = 8.2  :thumbsup: +0.2 Evolution and civilization  :thumbsdown: -0.1 A little too long  [/c][/size]
My preffered game, thanks to app I did several matches.
As a video game this is pretty impressive.  My skill level is currently between the easy and medium AI.
I have never tried the original version and I am usually not a fan of civ games, but this game is really fun. It is complex, it is engaging how you develop you civilization and it can be brutal if you fall behind in the arms race. However, it is quite thinky and it takes a lot of time and I would only play it with max 3 players.
il miglior gioco di sempre. molto lungo ed impegnativo ma stupendo, nulla è lasciato al caso, devi essere perfetto in ogni tua mossa.
I have played and own only the online version. Pros: rewards thoughtfulness and strategy, multiple routes to win, interesting theme Cons: not suitable for non-gamers, takes hours to play
This civilization game is a brilliant, streamlined game with stressful turns and a thematically stellar implementation. However, since each turn involves similar gameplays over 2-3 hours, it may become repetitive for some gamers.
Beautifully designed. Love it. Play everyday almost with my wife.
March 2016: Tried 8 or so rounds with Lynn last night.  Giving it an "8" just to get it off my "unrated" list.  Need to play more, of course.
This rating is based on online play, the board game would take too long for me to ever consider playing. 
Great game. Fun to play when I have the time.  That said, it is hard to get a group to consistently sit for this. And it plays even better on the iPhone app asynchronously. If you get it and like it, get the app too.
I'm a big fan of the original TtA - but so rarely get to play it that I can't justify buying this new improved edition. But I have been playing it regularly on BGO - and there's not really much to say, except that it's the same brilliant game, but even better.
(05/18/2017) - A great price on Amazon was all it took to grab this one up.  (08/16/2020) - SOLD
Beautiful game, but absolutely not for everyone. Long playing time and need to know all the cards in the game very well. It requires lots of games to be fully appreciated. The duration of the game is exponential, based on the number of players. Highly recommended. but only for experienced players, who want to dedicate a lot of time and study to a game
2P  A good civilisations game which involves much cube pushing to make technological advances. At 2 players it lacks interaction around political/military actions, I think I would give a higher rating had I experienced this game at 4 players.
Objectively, it is 10 stars. But, it hurts my brain. It's just not my bag.
Improvements are totaly relevant. Napoleon looks still very strong but maybe i played very badly. Whatever I liked TTA, now I'm love it !
[u]The Positive[/u] (+) Updated graphics and card design definately make this game look spectacular and colorful. New design choices are also more functional and aid in understanding the game.  (+) The closed economical system provided in 'Through the Ages' is by far the most interesting I have seen in boardgaming: the amount of different resources (food, materials, workers, science, happiness, military strength) and the way they interact and influence your game is nothing less than brilliant. This game is all about micromanaging those aspects and it is designed to create an interesting tension field between all those things you have to bear in mind. Doing things right and getting your stuff in order feels like a real accomplishment and in this the game is very rewarding.  (+) This is a very complete and balanced civilization experience. The game lacks a map and some bells and whistles other civilization games provide, but this game makes up for it by ensuring an engaging, clever and complete experience of growing your society. Very few games let each and every action matter as much as this game does and each step you take in TTA should make your potential grow.  (+) The meat of the game puts focus on building your own economy, but still the game offers plenty of very interesting player interaction. Assessing which cards opponents will likely take from the card row can make all the difference in the world, and you really have to keep an eye on the military effords your oppenents make. It is very unlikely that you can win this game by spending all your efford in building up a mighty military, but it is very easy to lose the game when your military might falters too far behind compared to others. Events, pacts, wars and aggression don't play out over a map, but their weight and significance in this game is very obvious.  (+) Military conflicts and tactics have been improved compared to the old edition. The fact that tactics can be copied after a while elimitates a luck of the draw aspect which could have occured before. The fact that military units no longer get sacreficed during aggressions or wars is actually an improvement and it avoids some potentially painful situations in which players could get utterly ruined by destoying their defensive forces. In this new system battles play out a little more tactical and they sure remain meaningful nevertheless.  (+) The game offers tons of possible strategies to follow, some being more risky than others, but all viable when executed masterfully. The luck factor is low (mainly involving event card draws - but this can be mitigated to certain extent, and also the order in which cards are put to the card row (there obviously is no way to mitigate this)).  (+) The cards are very thematic. The wonders you can build, the technologies you develop, the buildings you erect, the colonies you acquire, the type of government you introduce - they really do tell a story and you can immediately feel their effect on your game.  (+) This game grows immensely. Not only the table will become scattered with cards and markers, but you feel yourself getting more powerful. You start out as an illiterate bumpkin being short on everything but when you play your cards right you soon will grow to become a force to be reckoned with.   [u]The Negative[/u] (-) The game is prone to some downtime as it can take a while for your opponents to finish their entire turn. This downtime gets worse as the game progresses as players get an increasing number of civil and military actions.  (-) The game can at times feel a little fiddly when pushing around similar small counters representing different things. Sometimes I get the impression that the game engine lends itself more to computer gaming rather than boardgaming due to the ton of things to keep track of. This imposes some bookkeeping in the form of tons of tokens on different sort of tracks. This bookkeeping, together with the downtime mentioned earlier makes the game flow less smoothly than I would like to see. My advise would be to organize efficiently: When player 1 finishes his action phase, player 4 refreshes the card row, player 3 handles the income tracks on the culture and victory board and player 2 starts his turn with taking actions - or something like that. Failing to get organized as a group risks making the game drag.  (-) With a ton of different sorts of cards, this game really is a pain to explain to new players. I guess this is the price you have to pay to play such a complete civilization game...  [u]Conclusion[/u] I break down the conclusion in 2 parts: [b]What do I think of this game?[/b] First off, I have a deep respect for this game. 'Through the Ages' was, as far as I know, the first game to introduce a card row in which older cards get gradually cheaper - a solid mechanic which has since then appeared in many more recent games. The mechanic in which you put event cards face down in a 'future event deck' and draw another event card of the 'current event deck' adds so much to the gameplay and makes the game tell a story of its own, directed by all the players. Such concepts have added so much to boardgaming so I see 'Through the Ages'  as one of the big milestones in our hobby (along with the first 18xx-games, Die Macher, Catan, El Grande and Caylus). That doesn't necessarily make it an exceptionally good game compared to younger games who have borrowed some of its innovatory concepts - but I think it is safe to say that Through the Ages easily beats mosts of its younger 'offspring'. The immensely rich closed economical system in this game is brilliant, perfectly integrated into the gaming system and grounds player actions into a bigger thematic story. This is a huge accomplishment for what basically is a card game! Stripped away from a big central board with a map, tiles with tons of different buildings, a bunch of tech-tree cards, different sorts of resource tokens, military figures, ... this civilization game offers more depth and storytelling than any other of its kind that bring all those bells and whistles to the table but fail at providing deep integrated gameplay TTA provides and which is required to make a civilization game float. I have seen 'Through the Ages' been described as an 'impressionist painting of history' here on BGG, and I think that is the best way to describe this game: without the classic features of a map with armies and cities on them, you don't literally see your civilization developing and taking over the table. In stead with some (in this new edition beautifully designed) cards and tokens on them, like an impressionist painter putting a drab of paint here to represent a river and a spickle of paint there to represent the sun, TTA captivates its playes by making them feel what they are accomplishing and by telling a deep and rewarding story for those who can see past the counters and tokens on the cards and tracks. The price for getting this deep and rich experience is that this game requires quite some bookkeeping and at times, certainly near the end the gameflow may stall a little. In Dutch we have an expression which translates something like: 'I gladly cover those small imperfections with the cloak of love' because TTA never fails to captivate its players with interesting challenges and rich gameplay.  [b]How does it compare to its predecessor 'Through the Ages, a story of civilization'?[/b] In short: the new edition is better. This new edition looks spectacular which of course helps to get engulfed in the theme, but the new design choices are also very functional, making it easier to understand and explain the game. The changes made to many cards make more strategies viable compared to the old version and I very much like the updated military system making aggressions and warefare a little more tactical. With small changes in the timing of when players evaluate corruption and discard military cards, efford has been made to let the game flow a little more smoothly, which is helpful.   [u]Play time[/u] Approx. 60-75 min / player (full game)  [u]Tips[/u] [i]I have yet to test sooooo many strategies! I can really only scrach the surface here![/i] (*) I would advise against significant investments in military early (unless many different oppenents start doing so). Investing your precious resources and actions into building your economy early will often be a better path to follow (*) At the beginning of the game, in normal circumstances, you are mainly short of building rescources (and to lesser extent science). A logical first step is to build yourself an additional mine - but this really depends on the starting cards you choose (*) Bear in mind that wonders do wonderful things, without the need to place a worker on them - this is a significant advantage! There are also less prone to aggression by opponents compared to regular buildings. However, bear in mind that the price of wonders goes up when you build more of them, so choose wisely! (*) Unless you make use of special abilities like Robespierre, don't change your government style more often than needed as this will cost you too many science-points or actions (in my experience you better adopt one new government style or even remain a depot and boost your action potential with technologies and deal with the fact that you can only have 2 urban buildings of each type). (*) When explaining the game, do take some time to go through the culture scoring event cards in deck III, they give strategic guidance to new players (*) Military might alone will not win you the game, but if you lag behind too far on the military track, this will cost you the game. Don't fall too far behind as the game really can get cruel if that happens. (*) With each decision, think of what that decision costs you on actions, resources, workers (and thus food, happiness and missed opportunities at other places), science, ... Think about the return on these investments. This is a game in which every little gain can make all the difference in the world.  (*) When times get rough, often yellow action cards on the card display come to the rescue - they are important: use them!
Good game; very nice components; straight-forward gameplay.  No two games will be alike.  Plays quickly, minimum of "stab-the-leader".  Build your civilization!  The solo rules available here on BGG work very nicely, too.
Round numbers mean initial impression, but need more plays to accurately access. 
Excellent game but you need to reserve a lot of time for a game.
Amazing game as an app. Not sure I'd want to play this as a board game though. 
Long Civilization game, but best there is.  Civ building is good. Combat is present, yet not to unforgiving. Science, culture, everything matters.  No map :( No dudes on the map :(
I thought that there's too much downtime and to much set-up for this type of game. I think i prefer Civ or Tapestry over TtA.
Good thematic game.  Horribly let down by it's components.
Honestly, I might hate this one if I played the non-app form. As it stands, the viability of playing through an app makes the game far more palatable and in many ways enjoyable.  (+) Immense replayability (+) Simple but effective means to keep you invested in your opponents' development (+) Streamlined mechanisms and yet a heft amount of depth that holds up over numerous plays.  (-) Certain strategies can feel repeatedly dominant (-) Thematic tie in to a civilization building feel is nigh absent. You're drafting the best cards for you, ad infinitum. (-) (Rendered moot by the app) Upkeep can get out of hand.
My second favorite game besides Go. Love the vast array of options in this one. 
Through the Ages es un juego largo, agotador, da igual que sea a 2 ó 4 jugadores, es muy largo. Una vez dicho eso, es un juegazo, un juegazo con todas las letras. Juego de cartas, juego de tablero personal, debes hacer evolucionar tu civilización creciendo proporcionalmente, civil y militarmente. Simplemente MARAVILLOSO.
Meh. Find the game tells you what to do. Certain combos of cards just work and it's difficult to find creative solutions around those combinations. Not a go to for me.
Seldom have the time and/or players to think about getting this going. Will probably dispose of it at some point.  Either by sale, trade or gifting to the Eli when he goes to University  UPDATE  Gave to Eli as a going to uni present.
This is for me the best boardgame experience you can have but thats just me.
It seems that the victor is generally known about over an hour before the game ends. It is possible this is the result of differing player experience levels. Some games you can enjoy even if you have no chance of winning, I don't think this is one of them. So unless you have players of similar experience level, it probably will result in a runaway victory. Its a long game with a fairly steep learning curve (at least from the strategy perspective) so you either need to commit to it or walk away from it.
This has been an enjoyable game in my plays, but I don't think I will want to bring it out often? I try to use the rating scale as written, and it's a somewhat odd scale.
Don't remember the old version much but this one has better art and the rules feels better.  It's just a long game and not a particularly complex game.  One of the top civ building games out there.
Very thematic. You get sucked in the theme and want to create the best civilization while always making hard decision on where to focus (military, production, science,..) with limited actions.
I've always enjoyed Sid Meier´s "Civilization" kind of games. This "TTA" is one of them. The Spanish edition is superb. Its new graphical approach and improvements in gameplay in this modern version have carved a game that already was very good. An outstanding game, but games are so long. This is a deep strategy game, but with easy rules once you get used to it, addictive, and very enjoyable.   Now that I´ve played it for a long time, I must say it´s a very good "CIV" game, but too abstract, and too much  "EURO-mathy-cold" for my taste to be a proper "CIV" game. I like length and mechanics of this game, but at the end, I´d like to see a MAP, and my empire growing on a MAP.  There´s a superb digital app: I play it on iPad and still haven´t managed to beat its difficult A.I. With the last patch (1.2.4 when I´m writting this) they´ve improved even more this magnificent app. They´ve added an option so you can see the opponent's turn in detail and at slower speed (I choose the slowest possible option to see step by step what the opponent has done and it's great!). For my level of play, the A.I. is very good and, besides, I haven´t had any single problem of stability. Without doubt, it´s the best digital (iOS) version of a board game I know: it´s just perfect!! Hopefully, future updates will not break it... If something works, better not touch it! ;-)  Excellent product of Czech Games!
Nice card game! The only thing I miss is more cards / age. Because every time I play, the game ends when I just started to have fun gathering points and building stuff with my high science gain every turn... so if it was possible, maybe an expansion with more cards per age?
Just a great game in general :). A lot of replay-ability with a lot of different synergies! It can be a bit mean to your friends tho.
Hours of creative and intensive thinking. Not a 'general' boardgame that is for sure. Complex, logical, clean. Fantastic game.
Some civilizations have actually arose and fallen in the time I've spent playing this game. Always fun. Best with 3 in my opinion.
Amazing game! In the otherhand, digital version os way better than the fiscal onde.
i've been playing the app and oooh man i like this. i'm a big fan of both cube pushes and civ (video) games!! i love that losing a game doesn't discourage me so much as make me feel like a win would really be earned. like there's some depth here i need to suss out. not "need to" as in if i want to become good, but rather "need to" as in i'm a little compelled to teach the damn app bots who the hell is boss of medium (and, i must admit, it'll be a long road since they already show me who's boss in easy mode).  i want to replay lots! i kinda want to buy the physical copy and plop it down next time Tapestry is suggested. i also kinda just want to keep playing the very nice app and never even go near the worry of finding opponents, finding the time, nor with fiddling with whether cubes are in the right spot and sliding cards around.   [i]how much do i wish a replay? (condensed)... 10. - 9.6 = sunlight!! my identity as a gamer 9.5 - 8.6 = hot! hope to explore depth of! 8.5 - 7.6 = bright. actively seeking replay 7.5 - 6.6 = dimming. passively welcome plays 6.5 - 4.6 = done. play if good company requests 4.5 - 1.0 = reluctance > filibuster > evacuation [/i]
It is SOOOOO long :) Still, I love it, but cannot play this game too often.
A very interesting, albeit complex, card-based civilization builder.  I will never sell this unique gem of a game if I can help it. 
03-11-2016. Rated after 5 plays. I really like the game. It's a fantastic card drafting, engine building game.  Sadly it's too heavy to play with my regular game group.
Based on my rating of 1st edition and learning enough about 2nd edition that it doesn't make me want to ever try it.
Ozgameshop  So long, too much downtime. No catch up mechanism it's actually got a built in fall back mechanism where the further back you fall the harder and longer it takes to do anything. Actively encourages quitting early by having a rule to forfeit. Very dry and repetitive Euro.
--Nov2016-- Yeah; this is plausibly better than the original.  But son #2 really likes the original edition - so we'll likely continue to play that one instead of this.  It's still a very nice revision.
Here you can find some really elegant mechanisms, but the game is way too long and the dowtime is one of hate biggeest I have witnessed. Also I think that the meaningful choises you make compared to the duration of the game are not enough
This has got everything I enjoy in a good engine building euro. The first few turns feel like a uphill battle as you get your engine running. Every turn, you have more choices than you know what to do with, which forces you to make some painful ones. You never quite feel like you have enough of anything that you need. The game ends just as soon as you feel like you were making headway. Great game all around, hampered only slightly by the randomness of the available cards.  Very much like the previous version, but with some streamlining that makes things run a touch smoother.
I like some of the tweaks that speed up gameplay and make it less fiddly - like the corruption.,   I am concerned that the tweaks to the cards may have unbalanced the shorter 2 era game, which we play quite regularly, as the cards that are strong in that anyway have been strengthened to make them more playable in the full game, but I haven't played it to see yet.  All in all an improvement on the original, but not enough so that I'm going to rush out and replace my copy.
I have learned and now play this exclusively on BGA (though I do own the game), and I would take a full star or two away if I wasn't able to play on that wonderful implementation. Takes all the tiresome fiddly stuff out and let's you "play around" on your turn, trying things until you are ready to commit (which would be maddening in a real-life game).
Ok, but somewhat disappointing due to fiddliness and runaway leader problem. Conversely if you fail to set up well early on, then you are doomed to a long, tedious game with a 100% predictable outcome. There are dozens of much better value/time games around. Also, this is an appalling time waster if played with anyone who suffers analysis paralysis. I totally fail to see why this should be ranked to high
Great game - takes a 2-6 hours to play depending on mode (basic/advanced/full).  First play through took 6 hours with a moderator and 3 people that hadn't played before.  Awesome civ game!!
Gotta say that I own this game as a mobile app. But man.. I'm so into this game. Never had so many games played - about 200 games ! And still, it's challenging.
Played app version and the downtime can be long even when the bookkeeping is done by the app
[color=#CC0000]  The game is more than a bit rules-complex.  I'd wager 80% of its seasoned players are not playing the game fully correctly, just due to the sheer number of oddball details that need to be accounted for in a typical game.  That said, the game is resilient in its design and those minor errors probably don't affect the outcome very much if all.  This may be the single most foundationally sound game invented in the last 25 years.  I'm still looking to play more after 14 plays and that says something (for me personally at any rate) for a game with this level of heft.  This is a stunningly good big-game title.  [/color]
Regalo sorpresa de Litoraludo y Manuel por mi 32º cumpleaños.
Very complex and difficult game, it is also very long
This is my current favourite game. The length of the game makes it hard to get to the table though. I've only ever played with two players and I imagine that playing with four would be very tedious. The online implemtation remedies a lot of these concerns, but I prefer my boardgames to be real.  Edit: Replaced as my favourite game by Gaia Project.
Love this most recent version. Still the best civ-like experience in boardgaming.
One of my favorit games of all time. I love how involved you get in this game and how every tiny decision is affecting how the game will play out in the end. Love the card drafting mechanism and the combination between strategy and a small amount of luck. It really fells like you are building a civilization and optimizing every aspect of it. The only downsides are that it takes a long time to play (which I think is fine, but i can understand why that puts some people off) and the down time you have when the other players takes their turn.  The new edition is a more balanced improvement of the original game.
Vlaada at his best, greatest civilization-type game I can find
As a computer game it's a 10. As a board game its unplayably long and complex.
This game is full of interesting choices and excitement. Some of the best of the Euro style & American style mixed together - careful optimizations but big flashy direct conflict too. Just enough politics for spice.  This is a very heavy duty game - it might be a 10 if it weren't so hard to make room for a 4+ hour run. Still, the time really flies by!
For being a game where 70% of your time is spent moving cubes from one place to another, this new version of Through The Ages is an outstanding game. It recreates all of the little beats of the civilization genre, abstracting the geographical element and showing how early trends keep echoing in time. And it's a terrific strategic card game too, challenging and rewarding. This is one of the best civilization games I've ever played.
Review: Hands down the best game.  Old version isn't as good.  I don't get to play as often as I would like due to the length but I do have the app to play online when I get the itch.  I have logged some of my online plays as long as they are with humans.    PIFF: 1/2016 (thank you Chris)  BLING: NONE  BLING WANTED: Player Board trays.  
If I rated this based on my experience with the app, it'd be an 8.75 or maybe a 9.  But I would like to play the physical game to get the proper impression of the board game.
An abstracted, card-based civilization game without a map. Suprisingly it works really well without a map, did not even miss it!   As a player you build your economy by producing food, resources, science and the most important one culture. During your turn you have a political phase, where event cards or even aggression/war cards can be played, and a civil phase where civil and military actions can be taken by buying/playing cards. For buying cards, there is a card row with cards that represents all of the technologies, leaders, landmarks and wonders of our human history. These cards can be taken for civil actions and also played with civil actions in order to (eventually) gain culture. The player who has the most culture after the third age wins!  Incredible in-depth gameplay with lots of emerging strategies. For me, the digital adaptation get a 10/10. Nonetheless we're talking here about the physical boardgame and that one has two problems. The game takes too long with more than two players and the rulebook is not the best that I have seen.   This is why the physical boardgame of Through the Ages gets a 9 from me, go play it! 
Best game I've ever played. Played at 2 Bo31's in 4 day intervals as well as generally weekly games.  So much scope. Says 180-240mins playing time. That is absolute rubbish if you have any clue what you are doing. Time ranges (after you have played a lot): 2 player 20- 70 mins  3 player 30 -90 mins 4 player 40 - 120 mins
05/18/2022 Played it solo, if you consider a solo playthrough actually playing it.   08/21/2022 Need to table this for real  12/22/2022 Yep, I've still got to play this  05/24/2023 ...
I just cannot get this game out of my head. Through the Ages is pure genius, almost close to perfection. Played a couple of times in my phone apps and BGA. Felt like I am barely even clawing at the outer surface. So much more strategic depth and hand combinations I have yet to explore. I am usually quite reluctant to play games that require tons of readings on cards, cause it can drag the whole gaming experience due to intermittent pauses from reading all the fine texts. And to my surprise, even though Through the Ages' core mechanic partly relies on card drafting, it never bothers me at all. The texts are not convoluted; the card effects are straight to the point and practical. My admiration to Vlaada Chvatil is at the highest level now. Wish that I have known and played games like this when I was way younger. 
Objectively perfect. You can measure this using Science! More than any other game, the struggle of figuring out when to pivot from infrastructure to points-scoring is endlessly captivating for me. War was a bit of a problem in the first edition, where punching down on the weakest player was almost always the right decision (and incredibly easy), but it's been smoothed out really well in 2E.
[url=https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgameexpansion/280833/through-ages-new-leaders-and-wonders]New Leaders and Wonders Expansion[/url]  Mechanically a 10 -5 rank for trivialization of colonialism and western imperialism bias in theme
Just very good. If anything, it can be quite cutthroat. I just love it despite losing, especially in the app...
I don't like this game. I never felt like it's worth all the time and the fiddliness it forces you to go through. You buy some tech that allow you to produce 1 rocks. Then, later, you buy some tech that allow you to produce 2 rocks, and so on. In the meanwhile, you pick some points and scattered pieces of some combos you are trying to pull off on the way. Then you wait an eternity while your opponents try to make up their minds about how to invest their resources to do the same. I can't get why the designer decided to make a game that it's so abstract and yet so awkward when it comes to bookkeeping everything with cubes. If you are going to make a civ game that feels nowhere like one, at least try to not turn it into a chore. The most fun part of it, the events, feels like having been put on the background of everything else, and still they boils down to almost always have the most military power of everyone else, so that you can trigger the nastier one without worries. It's a mystery to me why this game has been so much praised and played. They are tons of games out there that are half as fiddly, half as long, and ten times more tense and satisfying.
I love civilization type games, and this one looks great! Lots of complex decisions, and cool components. 
The tweaks really improved an already great game.  The whole game is tense and you feel your empire grow over time.
A bit weighty, but just a lot of fun due to the things happening as your empire grows. Takes a few turns to get used to the system.
Excellent, huge, immersive game. Rather for two, max three players.
While I recognized first edition as a masterpiece of a game, I was quite reluctuant to play it, as I got utterly destroyed every time by more experienced friends. While not the problem in itself - I don't mind losing - the game was rather long and it was relatively easy to get into a situation where not only you have no chance of finishing with same order of magnitude points as others, but actually can't do anything useful for yourself as your civilisation falls apart.  I am not sure how much of it is luck, how much rule changes, and how much just accumulating experience, but while I'm still losing here, I feel that what I do actually matters and that I actually accomplished something in the game. I certainly welcomed streamlining and shorter play time (without really affecting the number of actions in the game), but the most important change was the reduction in power of many cards. In general, all combos which resulted in geometric increase of power/production are now reduced to simply arithmetic increase; for example instead of doubling happy faces, each happiness source simply gives another one.
Hands down an improvement on the original. Cards look nicer, tweaks to gameplay improve the experience. Note however that the tweaks don't significantly change the experience, in particular the fact that this game can be long, and brutal in multi-player - they are simply improvements on the design. The original is still a phenomenal game, and indeed I own that edition, and am in no hurry to acquire this.
Nur die App gespielt (inkl. Erweiterung) reicht aus und ist super
Just as good as the original, but kinder. No more hail mary sacrificing of units on the last turn, shared tactics cards if you've missed out on picking up something good.  This is a game that rewards repeat plays. I can't stress that enough. Early games might just run a bit slow, but as you get to know what you're doing you can bash out three player games in two hours. So if you like to really explore a game then this is one worth doing that with. If you just want to play it a couple of times and move on then I'd advise you not to bother.
Dont like. Takes too long and has a runaway leader problem
Less fiddly and with a quicker game flow than the original. Streamlined and clearer rules. Way better than the original, but still too long and with a lot of downtime between turns.  Genghis Khan feels overpowered.
Sweater Mike on Heavy Cardboard called the game "a symphony of balance", and I have to agree. It's a big game, with a lot of fiddly overhead. But in spite of this, it's really the best board game equivalent of the Sid Meier's Civilization experience, all without a map. Really, really great.
A heavy civilisation game.  One of the heavyweights if you like engine building.  I'd only play with 2p.  Likes: + Excellent decision making space + Card market moves quickly + Punishes mistakes + Seeding of the event deck  Dislikes: - Weird ahistorical combinations Joan of Arc leading tanks - Fiddly refresh during and after turns - Weakest military is a piñata and everyone targets them which can lead to unfunny experiences (ok in 2p) - Runs long with 3 don't play with 4
The beauty and elegance of this civilization building game can only be truly appreciated in a full game.  The balance of military to colonize and start aggressions and wars and the need to progress your civilization with technology and culture plays out extremely well.  It is a masterful design that deserves every bit of praise it has received.
Played on Steam several times, nice game.  Not the same experience on the table, I need to find players to play it.
Finally played a FULL GAME, and it was amazing. Five hours flew by, and I was engaged the entire time. The only reason it's not a 10 is that, even though I'm engaged, five hours is a long dang time. Also, it's SO fiddly. Dealing with those cubes and cards every single turn gets old quickly. And you're doing it for five hours.
I really want to like this game.  The barriers to really enjoy this game are just too great for my taste.  The game is too long, too fiddly, too unforgiving, and there are too many other games that scratch this same itch.  Fun fact, this is the first and only game that has given me literal nightmares.
Big and fiddly and complicated but fun and mind bending trying to figure out how to end up on top. Great balance with engine building, competition and flat out screwing over everyone else. Pick up the app if in doubt, all the fun with none of the faffy house keeping.
Ordered from Cardhaus.  I didn't remember much from my single play of the original version a couple years back.  So it was basically learning it from scratch, and learning is definitely what it was.  This game will take a few more plays before I figure out how to effectively get a machine going and not fall so far behind on military.  I love the game play and the civ building, but this game can be brutal once you fall behind.  Hope to play it soon while it is still fresh and improve n the first play.  
I give a 10 to the iOS/Android implementation as for me this is almost the perfect game. The physical version takes a long time to play and involves cumbersome math (especially for the age 3 wonders and politic cards)
Two 2p plays.  Still getting the hang of it and have yet to complete an entire game.  Some interesting mechanics, but also a lot of fiddly things especially   regarding moving resources around and tracking civil and military actions.  "Did I take two or three civil actions so far?"  Looking forward to more plays.
Considered the best civ tabletop game.  Loved my only play of it.
Glad I finally played this. Undoubtedly a good game. In the top 10-15, twice no less? No I don't think so. I can think of 2-3 other civ games I'd rather play including the grand daddy, Adv. Civilization.
Only tried the digital version and it is really nice, especially with the expansion. Looking forward to give the physical version a try!
Die 10 Punkte gibt es für Spielerfahrungen, die nur auf der APP basieren.
At first was intrigued then I understood the mechanics and had fun for a bit then became a bit better and games became tense and stressful. Its probably not for me but game is solid. 
I feel kind of done with this game. It's a great game. But I just don't feel like playing it anymore.   :) Thinky and tough, in all the right ways :) Really nice card art and graphic design :) Politics phase/event deck, is really well done :) Pretty clean for how much is going on :) Very thematic wonders and leaders  :!block: Lengthy game. Not a problem IMO, as I enjoyed every minute of it. But will be a deal breaker for others.  :soblue: Too tight :soblue: Downtime :soblue: Thin player boards :soblue: Missing tech skills
Having rated it's predecessor as a 10, this new version leaves me nowhere else to go! TtA is by far my favourite game ever. I love the new version - the tweaks to the brilliant original work well and the artwork is a thing of beauty. I've always been amazed that this very highly rated game has not been revisited by the publisher in almost 10 years, in terms of expansions or new editions. I hope this new edition will prompt further development - extra leaders and wonders will be great - and it would be awesome to extend the game into a further age. But for now - and for the foreseeable future - I'm so happy with this awesome game!
Es posible mejorar lo inmejorable? Vlaada sabe hacerlo.
1/2 off from EGG for prior Kickstart. Arrived 1/11/16
Played a bunch on the mobile app. Basically a card game with player mats for visual aids, but the true mark lies in how it conveys a story of rise and glory. Originator of many nifty things like the seeding of the event deck, the wonderful triple-nature of a yellow marker depending on where on the mat it is (land, worker, production), and the creative means of upkeep (consumption, happy faces, corruption).   5+4
WHY DO I RATE IT 9?  I love how the engine works, the feeling of the epic game you are playing, from the ancients to the XX century... It's great. Games are quite long, but I love every moment of those!   WHY IS IT IN MY COLLECTION?  My fiancee heard about this game and bought it for us. We both love TTA and we would play it more often if we could have more time! Terraforming Mars gives similar feelings, so maybe I could keep only one of those but to be honest that is not gonna happen ;)    +  Feels like an epic journey + "Addictive" like civilization ("just one more turn...") + Good components (and no need to sleeve cards) + Challenging (many interesting good choices to do)  - Pretty long (My first game lasted more than 5 hours, 2nd game lasted more than 4, 3rd game was "just" 3 hours long)  (bought on october 2017 -Topina)
The tweaks that have been made take this from a solid game to an excellent one for me.  I love being able to discard other military cards as well as the shared tactics and the card changes.  Great stuff all around.
A original variant of the classic civilization concept. Maybe suffers about "large experience gap" among players
Great on the app, but I fear playing it in person, massively fiddly
The changes from the original are interesting and definitely change the game. There are several ways they help limit run-away military strength and abuse of it throughout the game. You still cant ignore it, so the spirit of the game is still intact, its just a bit less brutal. I cant say I like one version necessarily better than the other, both are definitely worth playing.  *Caveat: As a sit-down boardgame, both of these titles are nearly unplayable due to the overall game length, downtime between turns, and difficulty of optimizing your turn and trying to un-do a turn when you end up a resource short or make a mistake. That being said, there are digital versions of the game where you can take turns on your own time (including resetting your turn), and the game can be played over the series of a week or so. This is where the game really shines. That may make it a bit unfair to rank it so highly as a 'boardgame', but played as such, it is a fantastic time. 
The closet a game has come to perfection for me.  Still not there yet, but this version does fix the biggest issue with the prior version (losing due to not drawing a decent tactics card).  Weakening Napoleon also is a nice improvement as well as using any defense card for +1 defense, which makes it impossible to succeed on attacks unless the attacker is at least +3 strength early in the game.
This game is not bad, but the design is very old school. I think other games offer similar level of strategic planing, while being more elegant. This gets rid of a lot of unnecessary complexity and makes games more fun.
Has the potential to move up with more plays.  2 to 4, best at 3,4.
My main complaint is the game is extremely long and the only variant it offers to shorten up game play is to remove the 3rd Age, which has some of the coolest stuff.   I wish they would have game tested a way to remove X-amount of cards from each age to speed it up, while keeping the same stuff around it. It'd also help with replay-ability if some cards aren't showing up every time.
Not a very fun game, honestly. Better than Nations, I guess, but that's about all it has going for it. Very boring Euro engine development game.
This is where I divert from the average BGG user, clearly. I've played Twilight Imperium and enjoyed it because although the game is extraordinarily long, it moves at a decent speed and you're engaged throughout. I've played games with a heavy cognitive load and even if I'm not great at them, I can find something to enjoy. With TtA I could feel the cleverness, but I also felt like I spent more time book-keeping than actually playing, and that to me isn't fun.
New version is prettier, but still too damn long for what it is.
目前遊玩過最優質的文明構築遊戲，在隨機開牌與運氣之間尋得了一個微妙的平衡，值得一玩再玩的好遊戲 雖然初學習的挫敗感會十分高就是
We call this "It takes Ages" and don't play it.  Now I play this as an app and it is genius! Honestly it’s the only way to play it due to its length.
Owned by app, also played it in person. The game is fantastic, but it benefits highly by understanding the strategy. That takes multiple play throughs to comprehend fully, which makes bringing it to the table a tough proposition. Playing it by the app though, solves that with a well designed AI and/or online play.
Love the theme and have high hopes of being good at this one day after 10-20 more “learning games”. Probably my favourite of the heavy TMI sift through a card deck engine building long arse fiddly rules salad check the small print euros. Although quite a bit more admin and take that than I like for such a long game. The arms race is so important which thematically is spot on but can lead to a hugely frustrating bashing of the weakest players. 1st game I’ve ever conceded half way through - note well, the concede action is available for a reason, it’s not frowned on to use it. Speaks volumes for the game play where you can end up in a cup-de-sac of your own engineering. Despite all this, like a moth to the flame I still can’t resist it and am determined to up my game so I can compete.
I have played this a lot online... I am horrible at it but I can't get enough of this game. It is amazing
15.05.2019 - xx.xx.2019 Belgium; spelshop.be; Europost
A masterpiece. If only it didn't take 2.5hrs minimum at 2P!! 
Never played the previous editions. This is amazing.  This is Civilization the computer game in a box.  For a game with no Map board it feels like I have built a civilization and expanded my borders.  I need to play this more but if my opinion were to change I suspect I will like this game more. 
Too large and complex for my wife. Opened but never actually played. Box shows slight shelf wear but all components in like new condition.
The cards are prettier and maybe a little more balanced. I would have preferred wooden cubes instead of plastic. These are minor issues though. Really, this is an excellent 2nd edition of an already outstanding game. Is it worth buying if you already have the 1st edition? Probably not, unless you are a fanatic about the game, or your old copy is getting worn out.
Way too much downtime between turns for me.  Seems like you need to look up a rule at least once a round.
https://www.shutupandsitdown.com/videos/review-tta/
New edition has rave reviews for improved balance, flow, and rules clarity. I think I need it as my civ game.  Played this on BGA only, several times now. It's unforgiving and I also feel like a couple cards are unbalanced. But anyway... I think I'd prefer to just play it online; I don't think playing it f2f would add much for me.  g2 b3 g4
Improves on the original. So satisfying, even though it is long.  Looking forward to the official expansion decks....
Finally got around to playing new version after a year or 2 break from TTA.  Playing in 3 games on BGO.  Still great, still gives the same general feeling and I think all the elements that really pushed it to the top of my favorite games are still there.  Def like the aggression change for the early game in the discarding for defense.  Should make it easier to hang on if you are a little behind in military at the start.  Need more time, but I think the war change will be better more often than not.  It does seem a little easier to declare small wars now so they may even be a little better on average as you don't have to fear a huge sacrifice.  Card balances all seem really fun.  Rich lands I didn't even notice the change till deep in my 2nd game.  New reserves are great for flexibility.  Now they can all be tempting depending on your needs.    Still need to test out changes to leaders, but so far seems like they are all great changes.    Should pick it up and trade in old TTA if I can get some people to play a game a couple times a year at least.    Looking forward to the expansion for new leaders as well.   Always liked playing the Global variants on BGO with variable setup of leaders/wonders.
I had never played the original version of TTA, but after playing this version I'm not sure I'd want to.  I've read about some of the differences (military and corruption) and I REALLY enjoyed this version.  I am a fan of civ building games, and this game felt like the king of that genre.  
As good as boardgaming gets, in so many ways.  However a 4 player game takes so long to complete - with such long downtime between turns - that we might never play it again.  A majestic design, but more fun on the app than the tabletop.
The cumbersome nature of multiple little blocks and hundreds of cards makes for a difficult game to play with multiple players especially new ones. That said it is brilliant and sophisticated in it’s strategic gameplay and replay ability but more suited for a computer game.  App is a solid 10.
This game is amazing.  I enjoy playing it on BGO.  Now, I wish I could carve out the time to play it in real life!
This is one of the best games i have ever played, complicated but rewarding  EDIT 2022: bought expansion also - still think this is one of best games ever.
Very nice game, but the more I play, the less I enjoy it. It is just way too "meta".
[2015-12-05] Csak idemásolni tudnám az elődhöz írt szöveget. A változásokat nem tudom igazán megítélni, mert az előddel nagyon régen játszottam. Nagyon szép lett a játék, de ezért nem kap tőlem egy ponttal többet. Továbbra is a legjobb ebben a kategóriában.
$40.24 shipped from Eagle-Gryphon Games Black Friday Special 2020
Rating for App Only. I don't think I'll ever be interested in playing the physical version given the hoops you have to jump through to get the game played. The app, however, is fantastic. 
Not being the biggest CIV-player and having played only the introductory game, I did not find the experience very satisfying. I do think the game has a learning curve (keeping food and resource production palanced etc.) but the production upgrades seemed s sparse in a 2-player game, that we did not get to do much engine building. I would play 7 wonders 10 times over this. 
I've been enjoying the electronic version which streamlines gameplay significantly cutting down on total length and eliminating needless accounting.  -- I like the civilization theme and it's cool to see the effects of earlier choices as your civilization develops. But I feel like game length is on the long side and it's fiddly.
Play only via the app version, as it handles all the book keeping and scoring much easier
one of the greatest games ever - giving it only a 9.5 bec i have only ever played it on website and app, and it is hard for me to imagine playing it in real life (so much analysis! would take too long! "whoops need to spend one more resource to avoid corruption, let me roll back" would be maddening!) but the online experience is unsurpassed among board games and mobile games
2020. I love civ games! I like the length and scope of the game. I am waiting for the perfect civ game to come out. Which will be a huge game with a maps, minis, and area control, more technology development and less fiddly rules. 
Got rid of it since it's so long and that I would always reach for Gaia Project instead of it.  Takes a long time, especially with four players, but I love the amount of control you have over you civilization. This means that when I’m doing well it feels deserved and when everything’s going terribly I’m not frustrated or annoyed but rather thinking about what I did wrong so that I can do play better next time.
德式文明模拟类的顶峰 极为精妙的机制和数字设计  缺陷在实体版的生产消耗过于繁琐 落后方体验较差，因此有体退
Great game.  Fiddly to keep track of everything, although the player aids and player boards are very intelligently designed.
Sleeved (in Mayday 50 x 75) Reviewed on Mounted Cloud
After playing Nations, I was hopeful this would be a big improvement over its original iteration. Nope. Nations still MUCH better. 
В коллекции с 21.05.2020 Подарок от Люды на ДР Заказана в Нескучных играх за 3120
I've only this version online, but I'd like to play it in person. Love the history.
Brilliantly designed civilization game. Incredibly immersive gaming experience.  Compared to other civilization games:  More fun than: Tempus Sid Meier's Civilization: The Boardgame Civilization/Advanced Civilization  About the same as: 7 Ages - but Through the Ages is more accessible  Less fun than: Nothing. This is the best of the best.  Why I think this is one of the best games ever made: Brilliant game design. After my first game I remember thinking that they couldn't have designed a game like this. They had to have lucked into much of it. That's how impressed I was.  So many fun elements. Playing the game is fun to do. It's really engrossing to plan and develop your civilization.  The military aspect, just like every aspect in this game, is integrated perfectly.  Why some may not like this one: Too long. But it doesn't seem like it. The end accelerates out of control. It's impossible for new players to prepare for it.
El único problema que le veo, es que las partidas se hacen muy largas (a 2 jugadores más de 3 horas sin utilizar la era III). Algún ajuste en las reglas o algún otro sistema que ofrezca la posibilidad de acortar la partida convertiría al juego en una experiencia más accesible. También padece del mismo problema que Terraforming Mars con los tableros de jugador.
Nice new version of the game.  One of the best civilization games.
Update: Raised my from a 7 to 8.5. I gave the game a lower score initially after playing the tutorial and first challenge and finding it convoluted and fiendishly complexed.   Anyhow, I decided to play again so that I can tick it off my list and slowly but surely, the game grew on me and I came to appreciate the depth and genius of the design.   10+ games later I am still learning new things about this game.   Digital implementation.
2–4 players  Best with 3 players Playing Time_120 Min  Type_Strategy Games Category_Card Game, Civilization, Economic   Aivja kolekcijā
This is masterpiece of a game that leaves me equally exhausted and satisfied after the playthrough regardless of the outcome.
My apsolute favourite games of all. Played it 78 times for now.  
Own the app, I don't usually like multiplayer solitair, but this game is fantastic with bots
I rated the original a 9, and the improvements in this edition help to streamline play, so that earns it a 10.
The game is good, but the military part of it is bad. The reason the military part is so poor is there is little risk to just heavily investing in the military. Playing the electronic version a few times made me see the best way to play was to bank on the random events. If you do not bank on the random events, then your resource allocation is sub-optimal.
Got the phone app. Really like the game and very well implemented. Would probably play in real life considering how easy it is to pick up and play the app.
A good modern substitute to the Civilization game: games are shorter, with better balance, and work with fewer players.  I miss the trading and especially the map of the older game but the civilization building aspect is better in this game.
Username: SmackleFunky https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.czechgames.tta https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/through-the-ages/id966245474?mt=8
Always the best civilization game. The 2015 edition just makes it even better.
Well, yeah. One of the all-time greats right here, and they actually found some ways to make it even better.
Played this on my Android tablet and just had to get the physical copy.  Not sure who I'll get to play this one with, but I'm sure going to try to get a game going when it gets here.
Love the original edition and would love to have the updated version. 
Realmente es un juego que disfruto y me gusta mucho jugarlo.
Great game. Deep and satisfying. The two flaws I can find about it are the playing time and how hard it is to introduce new players to it. Experience plays a big role in the game and a less experienced player will be trounced by someone already experienced with the game. 
Dużo lepiej sprawdza się do grania solo w aplikacji. W praktyce gra się dłuży, rozwój żaden jedynie powoduje wrażenie postępu przez coraz nowsze nazwy zagranych kart. Interakcja między graczami wymuszona i mimo tego znikoma. Bardzo przyjemne zarządzanie zasobami ale odpada na wielu graczy.
One of the best board games out there. Politics, history, war, development of civilizations. The digital version is also well made, expansion made game better with more options. Tests your intuition, calculation, and makes you try different mechanics with different leaders to check how things are gonna work out, real masterpiece.
Boring, unrewarding, completely lacking in civ feel, ridiculously long for a game so lacking in interest. Sorry, but I really dislike TTA.
(One of) the best (strategic civ) game in the world.
Brilliant revision to an already fantastic game! I'm not sure I agree that the sacrificing needed to be taken away. However, there are so many awesome improvements here: - streamlining the end-of-turn sequence by rearranging corruption - tactics becoming public, to limit significance of getting lucky in the tactic draw - better action cards, more balanced leader powers  Great stuff!
On BGA. 2-4 Players, best 3, 120 Min, Weight: 4.39. There's also an app, also on Steam with good AI & tutorial to play against. Tabletop version takes too long. 
Sold 09/23: too difficult to table. App much faster.
Since I've into board games some version of this game has always been in the top-2 games on BGG.  I like civilization games too but just never got around to trying this one.  Well, no more and I love this game.  This is a card driven civilization game that is very, very similar to another game I have and love called Nations.  Each round you spend a certain number of general or military actions.  With these actions you can draft cards, which represent everything in the game from leaders and wonders to technologies and one time actions.  The further from the start of the row they are the more actions it takes to draft the card.  The rest of your actions involve playing these cards which typically also requires a certain amount of resources.  The one niggling thing here is you can't do things like just stock up on resources or workers.  Workers need to be happy and if you have too many they won't earn you resources.  And if you have too many resources there is corruption and some amount of them will disappear between rounds.  The way you mitigate this is pretty interesting as well, goods are represented by blue cubes on a card, the better the card (for example a farm that produces 3 food instead of your starting 1 food farm) the more each cube on that card represents keepign more in your stock.  The military piece also turns out to be pretty well integrated and important.  At the start of each round you have the option to play one political action.  These actions are either adding a card to the political deck and drawing one to play that round, an aggression toward an opponent, or an outright war.  Usually these involve rewarding the strongest player or just the stronger player on one side of an aggression or war hurting or taking something from the loser.  So you can't play this game like I always try to play civ games by ignoring conflict and just becoming a technologically advanced race of nerds.  This isn't going to win any looks awards with little blue and yellow abstract pieces representing your goods and workers.  The "new" story of civilization adds art to the cards that the old one didn't have but the art isn't super impressive but still better than blank cards.    But there is such a deep well designed game here that that's what is going to win you over, not looks.  As I said it is very similar to Nations and while I think this is the "better" game in terms of design, balance, and mechanics.  I think Nations is still very good and has a lot more variability.  I've played this game about 5-6 times now and I've seen every card in the game.  I'm already working out which cards are the strongest and which are the weakest and which strategies are better than others.  I think this game is very "solvable" or at least strategies can be easily optimized after enough plays.  I don't think that will happen in Nations.
[Digital version review] An epic civilisation game that is deep and thematic but also quite lucky for a euro game. Also, has minor issues with downtime and fiddliness but the app has you covered.
This was a cool game but just a bit too in-your-face for me and my wife to want to play very much and too long to try to get to the table with a bigger group.  I need to look into the app.
Originality (1.0/1.0)    Theme (0.25/0.5) Pure Fun (0.5/1.0) Replayability (0.75/1.0)    Strategy/Luck Ratio (0.5/0.5)    Scalability (0.5/0.5)    Parity (0.5/0.5)  Overall 4.0/5.0
I have the previous edition that will be stored in the village
This is a rare game that I rank lower than it deserves largely due to how poor I am at playing it. I also feel that the game has a certain capricious randomness to it.  
What can I say - in my humble opinion the best Civ board game out. Every game you play has a different pathway which makes it great to play.  Understanding how leader/Wonders combos work is fundamental in this game. The expansion added the next level understanding to the game - especially when randomly mixing the base game with the expansion set.  One down side: War is in most of the games the path to win it. I had several games where I was comfortably in the lead only t be hit by 2/3 war in succession and finish last in a  4 player game.   Well, like most games: it comes down to balancing the books!!! :-)
Awesome game, with interesting mechanics and skyrocketing depth. The best parts are the feel of growth throughout the game and the interaction, elegantly introduced by the card row and the politic phase. The replaibility is also great. This is a very heavy game, and experienced gamers might struggle in their first plays too.  Small downsides: pretty long and somewhat tiring to play. It also came to me as a bad surprise that in such an immersive game the theme is not that perceived.
I played this the same day that I played the Colonists. They are both epic games. This really isn't a six in my opinion, but, according to BGG a 7 or higher is usually willing to play, and I don't think I would play this again. Not because it is a bad game, it's not. I just don't find the time investment worth what the game is. It took me forever to get the hang of how the game works but once I felt I actually had a handle on it, it only felt slightly more enjoyable. As I said, I played this the same day as the Colonists and they are both long, epic games, and I would rather play the Colonists if I was going to invest this length of time, and I don't really want to do that with that game either. But, surely an excellent piece of work, worthy of any praise it receives.
2 főre ajánlják, mert ha valaki elszurja vége és nem kell vegigszenvedni
Very interesting to hear of the changes.  As a TTA veteran my first (and quite probably misplaced) thoughts were that it is a nerfed TTA - tactics and sacrifice changes. I really like the fear of military in TTA, its the main reason why players keep their eyes on other players tableaus.  The other fears are that the balancing of cards is going to create a more bland experience. The joy of TTA is partly the spiky card powers. Please don't be anything like that abomination for milksops ('Nations').  Whatever happens I'm buying it and will be playing it to death.  Now having seen some of the cards it does up power some of perceived weaker cards ('Joan of Arc').  Not keen on new production style a bit beige and pastel and indistinct.   First play. Smooth. Very close to original. Liked the toning down of Napoleon. 2nd play and admire the small changes but I don't enjoy it as much as 1st edition - partly because my formative TTA expereince was with 1st edition and I prefer the spikier parts of 1st.
Excellent game. The only game where I really feel that as I'm building my engine I can start to direct it and make it work.
App is the best version. Arguably the best BG app ever made. It does all the bookkeeping for you, effectively reducing the weight of this amazing game to something extremely manageable even for people who don't like weighty Euros.
Love this game.  This is the civilization game I want to play.  The way it all works together is so logical and engaging and REALLY feels like you are playing a civilization game.  Only con is its super heavy and a bit fiddly with all the cubes and things you have to remember.
Rating from initial play.  Not sure why this didn't score higher for me.
The best game in my collection and in my opinion too!
An epic, incredibly satisfying engine-building euro game with a strong civ theme. Vlaada knows how to get theme across really well, but I'm learning that his style is maybe a bit too fiddly for my tastes. Can't deny that his games are just plain fun, though.   Really hard to rate this one. My only experience is from the app, which I've played several games of. It's really great! I can see myself playing dozens of games in the future. However, I'm scared straight of getting this thing on an actual table. The amount of upkeep the app does is massive, and I would probably lose my crap if I had to do it all myself. I think this is one that suffers from the Gloomhaven problem of "should have been a video game to begin with." I also hit the undo button an average of like 10 times per turn on the app, so I can only imagine how much of a slog turns are in the physical game. I will not be exposing myself or my friends to that agony anytime in the near future. The physical version would probably be like a 5 or 6, and the app is maybe an 8 or 9.  I'll keep it an 8 since the app is so great. Maybe this means I should try the Gloomhaven app now...
what else? the best game I have ever played without  hesitations
ho fato solo mezza partita di prova. nessuna pecca. lungo, ma profondo. assolutamente da rigiocare.  RIGIOCATO: grande tensione e soddisfazione, ma giocato prevalentemente nella versione pacifica. 
interested, but people keep saying that the app is way faster... sad
Just arrived.  Vlaada is probably my favorite designer, and this is highly rated, so I'm sure it's going to be a hit.
It astonishes me how Mr. Chvatil manages to balance out his games so well. Every mechanism works like a well oiled gear.
Lien thématique: + Esthétique: ~ Stratégie: +++ Rejouabilité: + Fun factor: + Accessibilité: - Durée: +  légende: + = +1 ~ = 0  - = -1
No successful play through yet and probably one of my oldest games. =(
Excellent, quite long but not as much as TI, lack of starting civilizations with different powers/starting cubes + with area control it would be a full experience without it u got like 80-90% of the civ game in it simple as it could be due to complexity
It is clearly better than the original game.  The rules tweaks and balance updates seem mostly pretty good.  It still has basically all of the things I don't like about the original, though, so it stays a game I'm not terribly excited to play.
Our first play was with 4 people. We expected a long game and started early, but boy oh boy... we really have underestimated just HOW long this would take.   There are many things quite unintuitive about this game, like managing resources, workers and actions. It works fine, mechanically but takes a long time to get used to. Since nobody of us really knew how to play, it took us literally an hour until we figured everything out. We had planned to go through until Level 3, even though the rulebook said, stop at 2 for the first game - we wanted to experience it fully. We stopped after around 6 hours of play after the second level.   We were exhausted, the turns took ages and the down time is pretty much unbearable. Not knowing anything two of us  bet on the wrong horse too early and got left behind hard, me included. Doing something non-efficient in the earlier turns renders the whole game pretty much useless because there is little to no catch-up mechanic. I don't think anyone of us really had "fun" playing this game honestly.  But still, even after all that: I am super intrigued to play it again... with 2, 3 players tops. To see if changing my strategie, changes my enjoyment of the game.   So: My rating reflects my first experience and I will play this again, at some point and then come back to this. But for now.. 6.5 is everything I can really give this seemingly flawed monstrosity of a game.
Will revisit the rating as I start to understand more of the system. Right now it is too complex for my brain to understand.  Playing on the app because the board game experience will break my head with the bookkeeping
[一刻館 Traditional Chinese 16 edition] {Civilisation; card-drafting, resource-management; optimal 3p} I had the old version.  I want my daughter to play this game.  She tried the old English version, and the English is too hard for her.  Thus, I got this revised edition with Chinese.  Hope this is better for her.
After a bunch more plays, upped this from 9 to 10.  The app is just as good.
Interesting boardgame, but I rather play Civilization on the PC then this.
We are only playing the app for now. No setup time and less downtime.
RANK: OVERALL 2 STRATEGY 2 - 6/2017 Weight: 4.31 / 5 Players: 2–4 — Best: 3 Length: 180–240 Min Age: 14+  
There is no words to describe how good is this game. Hard to play on board but iOS app is one of the best app ever. 3h full focus and pleasure.
A Masterpiece. One of the most amazing games of all time.
Je n’ai plus beaucoup de souvenirs de ma partie, si ce n’est que j’avais été très déçu. La manipulation était en plus ultra pénible et j’avais davantage l’impression d’être face à un tableau Excel que dans un jeu de civilisation.
(3-4P) Tableu builder game with a clever economical, corruption and happiness model. The game has an evil bite to it in the lategame if there is disparity in military power.
Definitively an improvement to the original version. Most of the cards have been rebalanced and the looks have also been improved. My biggest complaint, however, has not been remedied - the strongest military is worth nothing if you don't draw any Aggression or War Cards.
Played it twice with three players and six times with two. It is a great game.
I like the game, but I'm not a super big fan of military/war actions. There is still a lot to dig into otherwise.
I've played this a number of times on the app now.  As a board game I imagine this would be exceedingly fiddly to play. Constant cycling of cards through the available tableau, constant addition of extra culture points every turn. Keeping track of the exact number of actions you've spent on a turn (of two different types as well). Managing two hands, one of which could easily have 12 cards in it and having cubes flying everywhere to track resources in different denominations would be too much for me.   As an app I feel that the game goes simultaneously too long and too quickly. And both are intrinsically tied together. It runs too short because an early mistake can be punished and snowball out of control with no real chance of recovery, particularly on the military side of the game. It goes too slowly for much the same reason - you really need to know how effective all of the different cards are to play well but there are a lot of cards in the game. Many of which you won't see in any given play through.   It made me come to a realisation - there are two types of card driven games. The first type of card driven game are games where cards are a fairly genetic resource - games like Brass or even something like Lords of Waterdeep. Cards in this type of game give variability and variety, but rarely do they have a huge impact on your ability to win. The other type of card driven game is a game like Through the Ashes, Terraforming Mars or Twilight Struggle. In these games a huge part of the skill of the game is memorization of the deck lists and knowing which cards tend to be more powerful at which point in time.   It's this type of card driven game that I find frustrating because they're inherently unfair - there's a thing you want and you can't get it and can't do anything about that. Or your opponents get a good draw and you get garbage (or the opposite). It's unfun because the skill curve is learn cards -> know you've won/ lost fairly early on.   And the military in this game is completely broken. It's far too important. If you fall into last place you'll hit a positive feedback loop of bad things happening. Last place -> toss your military cards to defend aggressions -> fall further behind. It's not a fun experience at all.   So I'm not a fan of TTA. It doesn't give me a lot of freedom to do the things I want to do, which I feel is essential in a civ game.
Love the second edition but play mainly on iPad when i get the time.
Very difficult game to understand. Would be willing to try again if someone was patient with me and could talk me through it!
Still my favourite 4x board game, despite playing it a lot more online than IRL. 
Very fun game! Quite long to finish unless you’re pro. But awesome nonetheless
Storage Big Tray 2 - Cards/Tokens Board Box - Player Mats/Board mats
My current favourite game. Make sure you have a full afternoon/evening set aside to play this game, and friends who enjoy similar games.
Long to play (1hr for experienced player) But definitely balance perfection.
Cool reimplemented art, want to play it but not thaaat hard
This game is super long. It took about 3-3.5 hours in a 2 player game knowing the rules and took about 5-5.5 for a 3 player game.
Definitely the best game EVER made.imho  Deep and wide possibilities to develop your civilization, heavy card game to master but very linear. The game is not luck-dependent. Even if a little change in card order can cause a big change in game flow, you have to be able to adapt your strategy to the changing of cards flow.  A must-have in every gamer collection. You have to think on every turn, it's not THAT short (like Marco Polo) or definitely brainbusting (like in agricola...where if you fail a single placement you risk the defeat) but you don't have the chance to make (a lot of) mistakes.  The game appears to have a long duration (2h/p) but in a couple of plays you'll be able to master it and the time reduces to 1,5h/p)  "New leaders and wonders" expansion incoming!  
Vlaada made a miracle with this, the game has a very long duration but its like a time machine when you start to play
Own this one - still getting the hang of the physical pieces after playing it a lot via boardgamearena.com. Looking forward to setting aside some solid hours on this one. UPDATE: Best boardgame I've yet played - rich, love the theme, great mechanics. Only negative for me is the fiddly and easily knocked pieces. But my favourite BG at the moment.
I felt more like I was learning how to count cards than playing a board game.  It is a great idea, and I see why so many strategy lovers rate this game highly.  For me, I much prefer to win with strategy as opposed to memorizing the best card combos. That is not to say the game does not have strategy, I just prefer games with lest importance on memorizing.
Cooler pieces/artwork and more streamlined than the first version. However, it is still way too long of a game for me. Sure you have a decent game in there somewhere, but after 3 hours, you realize there's still 5 hours to go of complex micromanagement of every little bit of your resources. This felt more like work than something you'd play for fun. Overrated/10.
Such a great civilization game with a lot of possibilities. + great feeling to create a civilization, + army is important but only one part of the match  - much administration effort, - the shittiest "board" i have ever seen.  (if you are not sure about this game you may try the app, it works quite well).
I'm certainly not saying this is a bad game! It's just too long for me and can be very frustrating when you're behind and see looming defeat but still have to play for another two hours.
A great game, improved...Vlaada has outdone himself 
This rating is based on the fantastic mobile app, which *greatly* quickens the game by managing the accounting and taking away the fiddliness (as well as the setup/teardown).  The app is so attractive and well-implemented that I would actually give the physical copy (which I will never play again) a rating of a full point less.  Although the game can be a bit of a numbers-crunching affair as each side seeks to optimize their engine (e.g., the production of food and resources) and maximize points, there is a lot of variety in strategy, especially with the New Leaders and Wonders expansion.  Player interaction is also good via card draft blocking, occasional military attacks, plus you'll need to keep a constant eye on your opponent's progress on military strength and technology (i.e., keep up, else prepared to get suddenly slaughtered in war).  Overall, lots of fun, as you take a trip through time and build your empire.
I enjoyed this game fairly well, normally I really like the civ games so this rating is a little low for me in that area and that has more to do with just how different it is from other games in the category. The card drafting is fun and the game is fairly easy to teach it doesn't have as high of a complexity as other civ games which makes it a great introductory game.
Truly improving the original, though the lengthy gameplay and the non-trivial learning curve stays.  Which is about the only negative to this game.  The new version improves on points the original, but especially so the warfare. It still hurts to lag behind, but you won't get totally crushed as defending (especially early on) has been made easier.   Various cards have gotten tweaks so that now I haven't yet found a card which isn't useful in some situations. It now is even more about 'choosing your path': will you focus on culture, technology, warfare or resource gathering? Will you push the event deck as you anticipate it being stacked towards your strong points or will you try to avoid firing off events as much as possible and focus on your engine instead?  As far as I can see, leaders have gotten the most tweaks, and all have their uses. Awesome. As for eye-candy, the game now looks much better compared to the original.  All in all, I even worry it might be difficult to sell/trade my old copy. Which is a strange experience for a game in the BGG top 20 that deserves to be on any gamers' shelf if you like civilization building games and/or medium-heavy strategy games.  Length and weight is the only thing holding this off from getting playtime but if you think that would be no problem for your playing group, get this (or the original, which is still an excellent game by itself). You won't regret it.
Fantastic game! A bit much to handle, and easy to forget parts of each players turn. Needs a lot of gametime to fully enjoy it's complexity.
Just SUCH a great game. Quite simply: A masterpiece.
Excellent idea, very good economistic modell, but too long gameplay.
It's a great game. It's just not for my game group.
O meu  jogo preferido cartas   de civilização , pese ser longo, exige jogar muitas vezes para conhecer as cartas todas, fazer combos , e esticar ao maximo as nossas possibilidades, é um jogo de equilibrio e vai variando conforme o que os nossos adversarios fizerem, estupendo !
This is a great game, but it has one serious flaw in its game mechanics. You can plan your turn on the other players turn, but since events and attacks can have such a big impact on your plans you have to plan your whole turn once more on your turn. This is a design issue that makes the game drag out to much,especially events on your turn right before you do your action phase.
While I generally prefer physical board games over their app implementation, I find that the digital experience of Through the Ages outshines the physical experience by quite a wide margin. To be honest, when it comes to in-person experiences, I prefer teaching and playing Nations over Through the Ages... even though I find TtA to be the better designed and (usually) more rewarding experience. With that said, I'd rate the app an 8.5 and the physical game a 7.5... resulting in Through the Ages leaving my shelf and fining a home on my Android devices.
I tend to not like games that rely only on snowball mechanics and hoo boy does this kill you with snowball
2 player games are for me a little to focused on the arms race alone, that's why I rather play with 3 or even better 4. At full player count this would be a solid 10, but for this, you have to find the right crowd, who are OK with the play time. The game is so diverting, that I myself never seem to notice, how much time it takes.  I'm still rather playing on the table with nice face to face company then anonymously on an app. The so called fiddlieness of the production phase seemed never to be a real issue for anybody, I played with. Might be even smoother on an app, but I think the problems with it are exaggerated, at least in this "New Story".
Ingenious implementation! It's incredible how captivatingly world history can be played through by means of a few large piles of cards. Efficiency increases in resource and food procurement are reflected just as elegantly as changes in military technology or technological advances. At the same time, everything wants to be kept in balance. Although you are mainly occupied with advancing your own development, you must always make sure that you have something to counter your opponent, so that you don't have to accept a bitter defeat in case of conflict. If the moves and the game as a whole didn't take so long, the game would probably be on the table all the time. We haven't managed to play the game for less than five hours, even with two players. But you probably can't have Civilization under that.
Digital version. Once you get past the rules this game has extremely deep strategy.
Way too heavy to be fun...  Played again using the iOS app and its an amazing game. It still is very heavy, but once you get the idea of it, it's really good and very fun. However I still find it hard to imagine playing this in a cardboard version and without the app doing all the bookkeeping for you...
Fun engine building but takes to long and is fiddly. One unlucky draw can cost you the game. It is very Steamrolly.
French review on Vin d'jeu: http://www.vindjeu.eu/2016/06/07/through-the-ages-lhistoire-vous-appartient-version-2016/
Great game that rewards careful planning. Not overly cutthroat as taking cards you don't need punishes you rather than your opponent, but a tactical war can screw you over. Mechanics work well together, meaning that neglecting even one part of your civilisation can mess you up.  Best played in a three as there is a little downtime between turns and with four it can get a little laborious. Always happy to get it on the table.
Really good civilization building game. Downsides are the tracking of resources which cumulatively takes a lot of time. Online version takes care of all that and upgrades the gaming experience.
UPDATE: This game will always have a special place in my heart, but TtA community has passed me by. This game has a robust community and culture, and I'm appreciative and in awe of the truly great players, but I can't handle playing multiple simultaneous asynchronous games. I just don't have the time or patience to manage that scene.   So while I'm not going to be participating in tournaments or leagues, I enjoy a one-off live game of TtA more than almost any other game.  ---------   The design is so drum-tight and integrated, it runs circles around any other heavy euro in terms of systems and play. Even though it is essentially an engine-builder/resource management game, it feels absolutely nothing like any of the other games that drive down the same road.  TtA hits the sweet spot of tactics-meets-strategy, as you have to pivot effectively based on what the card row gives you and what your opponents are doing. And yet, core strategies drive individual players' play styles which are varying. Top players can adapt to the game state nearly instantly and make decisions that seem puzzling to the uninformed, but are usually just angles you haven't considered yet.  Overall the systems are balanced, but there are some cards that don't come in to play very often due to optimal strategies.  It is an invigorating gaming experience challenged by no other. It is a game that begs its players to achieve mastery, and yet mastery always feels just out of reach.  There is Through the Ages, and then there is everything else. It is the game against which I measure every other game I've ever played.
I feel like everything about this game is better than the original Through the Ages.  Which is amazing, because the Original Through the Ages was absolutely excellent.  I rated it a 9, if this is better, I guess this makes this a 9 too, it might eventually become another 10.
Note:  App (base + expansion) BGA (base) Physical copy (base + Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders (2020))  Rating for App version. For a game that tries to achieve so much, the rules are not really that complex (But it is scary to start learning)  Edit: 9.25  As heavy as it is... I want to play this game a lot! rating upgrade based on additional BGA plays  
Hagytam magam rábeszélni egy játékra... Végig úgy éreztem, hogy egy haladó nehézségű 7 Csodával játszom. Nem állítom, hogy minden szabály világos, de tetszett. Még elő fog kerülni.
Don't think I'd really want to play the tabletop version often, but the digital is really good.
Digital Version L'évolution de l'Homme  + Créer son Empire et prospérer + Tutoriel de la version Digital bien fait ( à conseiller)  - Jeu long... trop long à plus de 3 - Règles pas évidentes sans investissement - il faut y jouer régulièrement  Jeu de civilisation qui nous amène des peuples Barbares au 21ème siècle avec une obligation d'évoluer et de modifier ses moteurs à points ( Arts /scientifique/Militaire ) sous peine de se voir dépasser par les autres
Since the app came out my desire to own this game has dropped significantly.
Without doubts this is the worst game in the market. The whole concept is wrong and completely unbalanced. My main problem with the game is that it's way too long, and in the end your previous decisions may not matter at all. It also does not matter if you lead in culture (VP) and military during the whole game, because in 1 or 2 turns you can be destroyed and end the game in the very last place. The whole fighting system doesn't make any sense, it's almost impossible to win an agression if you don't have a crazy army and the others don't pay any attention to strengthening their military. Being able to take culture (VP) in the end through war is a very strange thing, and it can destroy the whole game (which is really super long) in 1 turn for the defeated. I feel like the fun factor is eliminated if you don't win because the engine you built during hours collapses in a few moments. I'm not sure if it was intentional from the designer (probably it was), but I wouldn't advise playing it even to my biggest enemies...
9 -> 10  This version is a little bit different, than the old edition, but after almost 2 plays (one was incomplete - to the middle of Age III) I think the old edition is a little bit better. Although the new one is still a great game.  Advantage of the new version - The new cards: In the previous edition, there where some cards, that where realy bad, like Khan. Did someone ever choose this leader? This bad cards became new rules and are now better. So know every cards is really strong. Harder to choose cards.  The new cards are also more interesting, because they give you more different things (like only 4 points, but also 1 science instead of 6 points but no science in the old version) or give you a choice (like every turn do this or that).  -artwork: Tthe artwork is beautifull, but very important, during the game everything is clear like in the old version  -replacing a leader: now you do it as a free action, so you will more often replace your leader   Disadvantage of the new version -Military is not so strong: I know the TtA is an economic game, but this military aspect was something interesting, something that you don`t have in other econimic games; in this version you still have military, but is not so powerfull. So tou could do more things to get points. In other word the new version seems to be more poor (only economic way, in the old version you could also the military way)  -Corruption is now easier to see (this is a clear advantage), but is easier to avoid corruption. Specially with the colonie, that now give you so many blue and yellow cubes. So you don`t feel so much presure like in the old version. The game is more easy. Fortunately still hard, but obvoisly more easy  EDIT: The game is easier when many colonies come into play. But if you want`t play many colonies there will be not so many in play.  Military strange is not so powerfull like in the old version, but a war can still be a danger for another player.  In others words after 2 more playes I see, that the disadvantages are not so huge. The new version is overall a little bit better, than the old version
One of the best games. Sid Meyer's full experience. I also love the new art!
I liked it. There is a lot going on and building your civilization is cool. However, it is very long and lacks the nostalgia factor of Advanced Civilization.
I don’t even imagine a better civilization building game. Maybe Sid Meyer’s video games, but I’m not sure. A masterpiece.
One of the best in-depth civilization games, even more impressive how the theme manages to come through with just cards. Mechanically a very clever card-based engine where simply just ramping up production and getting more stuff isn't necessarily a good thing, as you have to find a balance between everything and put your resources to use to avoid corruption. Allocating your actions and drafting the right cards which synergize together well and work into your strategy is really fun. Managing the event card deck is also a whole another game in itself, the importance of which I feel like I'm only just starting to understand now after multiple games.  This is a great game, but difficult to rate as a board game. First of all because I only ever want to play it on the app. The amount of fiddly upkeep and accounting would be completely off the charts in the physical version. There's a lot of cubes to move around and conditional effects to keep track of. I also dread to even imagine the situations where a player has taken all their actions, only to realize they've miscalculated and will up in corruption / civil unrest, and then desperately try to work backwards and undo their entire turn. The app is so amazing at taking care of all of it that I have no desire to ever play this as a physical game.  Weirdly I also don't really even want to play against other humans. The amount of downtime in the game would increase massively, and instead of cracking out quick 30min games against the AI, the games would take multiple hours or even days when playing asynchronously. There's also huge amounts of negative interaction in the game, and if a player ends up falling behind, not only are they going to stay behind, the event deck and other players are constantly going to be attacking them and milking their pathetic civilization for resources and victory points. Which doesn't lead into very fun gaming experiences.
I guess I can see that it is a very well designed game. You're forced to optimize from the beginning. Learning curve is probably too high. At least as a casual player my strategy is highly luck dependent. In short, it is not the most enjoyable game for me.
Amazing game, deserves a place in anyone's collection.
This game is a tedious balance of resources and economy.  I still don't truly know how I feel about it, I feel a bit like the game is a little too long and thinky for me to love it, and further hurting it is the bland art and length.  However, it is a surprisingly well designed game of resource and economic balancing, which I typically love in RTS games, and it has a really neat future event mechanic which I have only seen in games like Robinson Crusoe.  So do I like it?  maybe.  Do I hate it?  no.  Do i love it?  no.
Players: 2-4 Time: 200 Min Complexity (1-5): 4.29 Mechanic: Card Drafting / Auction / Hand Management Notes: 
Such an engaging game to play, if the group can handle the relative complexity.  The game is not that complex but there are many small details to keep track of.   Games can be lengthy, especially if someone is AP prone.
Bonito como pocos. Historia de las civilizaciones en 3 ó 4 horas de juego. Y sí, lo disfruto más que su versión digital.
Don't be the weakest player in the game otherwise it's gonna snowball really fast.
An improvement over the original. This and Advanced Civ are the two best civ games out there. However, both are too time consuming to get a higher grade.
The game is good. Best with 3+ players as 2 player game can get really one sided at some point. Only flaw the rules can get pretty hard to learn at first.
New version looks very nice.  Deep, absorbing game of cube pushing. However I don't feel the game changes much during its duration and its all a bit tedious with not much excitement (Probably due to no map). With 4 there is quite a bit of downtime and the game is very long. (1st 4 player game 6.5 hours).  That's longer than Runewars!. (I'd rather play Runewars!) 
Took a long time to learn mechanics. Only played two player and it was fine. Might be better with more players to get more interactions with war and pacts. I like the concept overall and historical aspects.
Juego de desarrollo de civilizaciones que funciona fantásticamente bien. Las múltiples estrategias para ganar, con un punto de suerte a la hora del draft de las cartas, que además hace que cada partida sea diferente.
He jugado una vez de momento pero me ha transmitido muy buenas sensaciones. Me gusta el diseño, los materiales y la mecánica del juego. Un juego que todo jugón debe tener en su estantería.
The more I play this game the more I like it. It seems to be at it's best with three players, but we normally have four at our game nights, there is a little more down time and it is a bit harder to make any sorts of plans to your next turn with the extra player, but it is still very enjoyable. A few of the cards seem overpowered such as the technology trade pact, but it hasn't hindered our games yet. The war over culture is interesting in that it makes you have some sort of military, just in case someone blows you up. So far my group has gotten quite a few hours of entertainment here with countless more to come I am sure.
It was a nigh-perfect game before. It is practically a perfect game now :)  Yes it's long. Yes the card draft is random. Yes it can be frustrating.  But the strategic depth is unparalleled, and the satisfaction when a plan comes together is epic.
It's an amazing game. So many moving parts, and pretty heavy, but totally playable and makes me happy to play. So far, I play once every year, but I'd like it to be at least 3x per year in the future. Seems unlikely but one can hope :)
First impression after a two Palyer board game (live - not an app, not on BGA):  After one "live" game i don't have a desire to play it one more time. TTA is very long, slow paced, AP inducing and fiddely. And if you want to play a shorter version with only 3 Ages and/or no military battles you will have a problem with an overpowered "Michellangelo" strategy.  The game is also very abstract and i don't get a feeling of achieving something while i am constantly moving some cubes around the board. Almost no theme in here.  My personal verdict: Too long, too abstract and too fiddely for what it is in "live".  Computer and app versions might be better though, because they pretty much mitigate all the problems i mentioned. I rather will play Twilight Imperium / Eclipse/ Civilization / Clash of Cultures than this.
It's complicated, long and difficult, but so much fun. I'm intrigued with it, and want to keep coming back to it to try and get better at the game and run a better 'civilization' each time. I love the card buying system, where you can pay more to get a card now or hope it sticks around and gets cheaper later, and the action point system is also really good. 
This was at one time #1 on the BGG ranks, and it's pure bliss. It's a long game with so much to do and yet seems to be over before you know it.   The problem for me is the game length, it's just too much to be reasonable to table most of the time. It's long enough that it falls into my "event" category, a game that has to be scheduled and prepared in advance and for me that's rarely going to end up being a well polished strategy like this. It's going to be something with more politics and mayhem like Twilight Imperium 4 or Black Rose Wars.  Fortunately the app for this game is simply amazing. It speeds it up by a factor of 4 or so and if that's not good enough makes it easy to play async. It takes care of so much of the little accounting in this game, it takes the complexity down from over 4 to under 3 in my opinion. It's my absolute favorite board game app and probably also makes the paper edition seem less appealing just by existing. Even if you don't want to commit to the cardboard version, give the app a try and you'll see why this game is at the top of the charts.  Note that this game plays differently at different player counts. At 4 players it's a brutal contest of military bullying but at 2 a heavy military strategy has a good chance of never paying out. At 3 players, a good balance is met and all kinds of strategies seem viable.
The 2006 original version was very highly rated on BGG, so tried this second 2015 edition; great civ game, but better to play on the ipad or BGA, it is a bear to play on the table, so sold physical copy.
This game is incredibly hard to rate. It's good - it's very good! It's really long - I love long games! It's... kind of dull? Is that even a bad thing? It's definitely not exciting - and there is where it gets a little fuzzy for me. I don't know if I'm ever excited to play this game, even though I'd for sure sit down and join some friends for a game of it. I don't see it on my shelf and feel warmly about it, I don't get a thrill showing it to my friends. I don't think I've suggested a game of it in at least 4 years.   There's nothing wrong with this. It's a very well-made game that can really hum when everyone gets it. It just doesn't do anything to really hook me, either, and that takes what is probably an 8.5 design down to a just-under-8 score for me.
Peaceful game: 8 Normal game: 5 Unbalanced with wars. If someone goes all in on military everyone else has to follow. Takes a little too long time to play.
I like to get paid when I have to do tedious accounting work. I don't mean this as hyperbole: it is borderline unplayable for me... and I enjoy spreadsheets. The game also took almost 5 hours with 4 players. Maybe it was the group I played with, but the downtime was unbelievable.  I would be willing to try it again, but it would take some convincing.  
Too complicated (many terms, rules and nitpicking), too long and not enough fun for the level of length and complexity
A refined version of the quintessential civilisation game.  Played 30+ games so far and still eager for more.  The art in this new version is fantastic and the game play is sublime.
A fantastic, intricate civilization game. Challenging to balance long term planning with immediate needs. Very engaging experience. Not too long of a game with two, though I would only play this with four if everyone was experienced in the game.
One of my best board games. Absolute love it. Only tried with 2 players but that works for me. Waited for this, to have a better visual than the old one. You need some time and a game or two to fully understandind it. From there it's all up to you ;)
Would give it a 7.5 if I could. 1/3rd of plays on cardboard, 2/3rds on digitized. 
Long game. 6-7 hours with 4 players. Very replayable one. Civilization kind people live for this game.
Digital version on Steam. It is just not fun. There are too many times that you can not do anyting, and the cards are uninteresting. I would much rather play [i]Nations[/i].
I only own the iPad app at this point, but wow is it a blast!  What a cool game!  I’ve played 8 games now on the app and I absolutely love this game!  Each time I sit down to play it, I’m completely engrossed until the end, and this is just against AI players!  I convinced my brother/fellow boardgamer to download it and learn it and we are going to try out a two player live game tomorrow.  I can’t wait!  Honestly, this might be a better game on the app than the tabletop since I could see how it could take quite a while to setup and put away, and also a lot of the scoring and military combos and rules can be complex to sort out and I’m sure I would have screwed several things up if the app wasn’t handling all that for me and keeping me in check.  So I would say, if the fiddliness and the long game length (reported in many other reviews) are keeping you from buying this game, then at least try out the app.  If, however, those things aren’t deterrents for you, then buy the board game and you will find this is the best “long game” on the market.  I’m going to slowly introduce this game via the app to people in my gaming circle and if it’s accepted with enthusiasm then I will probably end up buying the board game.  I’ll post an update later.  Update: have played about 20 games now with other players online and still love this game.  I still haven’t bought the board game yet though, since the app is so well done.  We get together as if we are going to play a board game and just sit on couches and chairs with our tablets and play this game.  It’s a blast! 
Epic deep game with quite logical rules (loads of nuances), but far too long for 4 players. Real feeling of civilization growing. A lot of markers fiddling. Update: iOS implementation is fantastic and saves a lot of time
4.43 Complexity Streamlined + Easier on Steam Rating Based on Solo Online Play enjoy the missions!
There are plenty of subtle improvements, most notably to the cubes replacing the discs and a much better rulebook.  I'm not sold on the tactics cards, though...
Great simulation of building a civilization. More balanced in this version. Really deep and fun. Pretty portable also. Awesome! 
I've only played the digital app, so can't speak to the physical game.  I imagine the math would get pretty heavy without an app doing it all for you.  I've also mostly just played asynchronously, where each player takes as long as they want to do a turn, which allows for full exploration of the huge range of possibilities each turn.  It's a really fun, dynamic, and tense competition.  I love seeing the push and pull between players over the arc of the game.  The expansion's addition of a much more diverse group of leaders improves the experience as well.
A new concept for our gaming group that we really enjoyed. Hope to play this game many more times(:
It's hard for me to commit to rating this -- I don't own it, but I think it's objectively better than its predecessor (which I do own and continue to love.)  I like the tweaked leader powers, the changes to combat, and the overall presentation quite a lot.  But I also don't feel like it adds enough for me to want to consign my earlier copy to obsolescence and pick it up for myself.    (And in general I'm cranky about buying things that replace versions of things I never had a problem with, and I tend to get irrationally resentful at the very idea that I should.  So...bah!)
Simply one of the best games ever made.  Incredible card drafting, excellent brain burn as you try to optimize your limited actions every turn. So freaking good!
If you like this type of game, this is worth playing. Not so good to play online unless you are playing with people you know because dishonest people can gang up on you without proper motivation. The actual board game is fun - an engaging, meaty game. Chvatil did a good job adapting "classic Civ Rev" to a boards and cards game.
I love what it tries to do. Too bad it has too many cube/moving stuff around, AP and it takes long (of course it does). But really like growing and optimizing in this. Might have to try other civ games. Went for a just optimize stuff +actions, into just going ham last 3-4 rounds on war because nobody did. Had like a 40-70 point swift with that two straight wars, kinda felt bad for the other guy.  Great game.
Always gets the nod of approval. Plenty of ways to play even if your original plan has to get thrown out the window!
Significant improvement over the base game. The tactics card fix is good, but not entirely great - there's still too much randomness. Card fixes and new corruption rules make it possible to win on an economic path, with some military investments.  I need to play it in-person to see how the gameplay efficiency improvements help with the flow of the game.
Somehow, they managed to take the greatest game I've ever played, and make it better. Now I just hope they put the time into bringing out more expansions and/or promo cards for new leaders, wonders, and whatever else.  Bravo, Vlaada. You have shot up to the top of my designer list, again.
A fun game that benefits long term planning and reading your opponent, but can be held back by very fiddly components. Also, settle in for a long session even with more experienced players. Needs a playmat!
Actually the iOS Version. Got it to have something to take with me on vacation.
I think this has actually become my favorite game.  It is absolutely marvelous.  Every turn garners meaningful decision points, and when the game ends, a clear arc exists for what your civilization became.  So very very good.
I was expecting great things from this game, considering its rating. After getting it and reading the rules, I was almost sure I would dislike it. And after playing it, I can say it is something in between for me: positive but at the same time not as good as an 8.7 would suggest.
An interesting card driven economy that isn't based on luck.
It really gives you the feeling that you travel through the ages trying to make a dominant civ.  A nice civ building engine game, that has a nice simple learning curving line with very clever mechanics.  It may gives an advance to military focus civs, but hey... unfortunately that reflects the story of mankind
2-4 players.  An incredibly deep civilization game using only cards and cubes. Features war, resources, auctions, science, and drafting in small ways. Turns are long but are engaging for the player in particular. Deep long game.
After the first couple games, I thought I loved this game.  No game is the same, and every decision feels critical and is exciting.  However, after several more plays, I find it to only be good with a knowledgeable game group, and even then, there is the risk of losing early and having to play through and watch your friends play for an hour or two while your civ flounders about.  I enjoy the game with a group of 3.  Two player doesn't feel epic enough and four players usually leads to one player getting piled on and way too much down time.  Most people rating this game have only played the app, which obscures the average score on BGG, but it does eliminate the tedious aspect of it as well as turn a 4+ hour game into less than an hour.  As a PC game, this is an 8 or 9........as a board game, maybe a 5.  The more I play, the less I enjoy it, even though the depth of strategy becomes more clear.  I won't play anymore unless it is a hotseat game on the PC and I would prefer to play a hundred other games before then.  It is worth a play or two, but once you know all the cards and how to play with the variois leaders, it just gets more and more boring despite you getting better.
Complexity - 4/5 Length - 3+ hours  The game box lies, this always take super long even on the fifth+ time. Setup takes time too. Very fun engine builder with a decent bit of player interaction and decision making. Can start to feel repetitive after a while but has lots of replay value at start.
Play (7.5) 60% I completely appreciate the game here, it's a deep and well thought out game.  However the play itself is very cumbersome.  Refreshing cards all the time, moving little cubes around all the time, even taking your turns requires constantly rolling things back when people second guess themselves.  Not to mention it has one of the things I really dislike in games: long turns...one player's turn can be like 10+ actions long...it bogs the game down badly.  It's the kind of game where you feel exhausted when it ends.  The game starts and you're very into it and very focused on your turns, and by end game you're doing the "I guess I'll just grab this and grab that, why not?!" type of actions.  The War/Colonization elements of the game work better with more players but at the same time playing this game with 3-4 is going to be an all day affair...in the 2 Player game these aspects are more deterministic and less interesting.  I get why some people have taken up a second career playing TTA, but it's definitely more a labor of love than an easy obsession.  Practicality (6) 30% The game is a bit of beast to learn and teach and there are several little things that are not intuitive and have to be looked up almost every time I play the game.  Looking up a few rules over the course of a 3 hour game isn't a huge deal but when you factor in how general cumbersome the game is to begin with it just adds to that.  Getting people to commit the time to learning and playing this game has not been an easy thing to do and frankly I don't know if I'd want to sit through this with more than 2 people that often.  Playing with people who have even some AP tendencies could turn into a complete nightmare.   Parts (8) 10% The art is good and clean, the boards are fine and the cards are pretty nice.  The game comes with a well above average insert.  However with all the cube pushing in this game, I think some indented player boards are almost a requirement and the lack of them leads to a messier than ideal game play experience.  Overall: 7.1  *Logging all plays here from both editions.  **Playing on the app is such a different experience and excellent.  Here's my app review, primarily focused on playing against the excellent AI.  The app fixes literally everything I don't like.  There is no more cube pushing, no card refreshing, no tracking your stats.  It even reminds you if you're forgetting abilities.  If you're playing 4P against the AI you can play a full game in well under an hour.  Being able to play repeatedly also lets you really start to dig into the strategy, it's just so much better of an experience.  On the app I would easily put this game at a 9.
329@50*73 (https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/1432101/card-size)
8 for the game, 9 for the app. The app is much faster, allows you to pause, and does all the heavy lifting for you. It might be the best board game app ever.  The game itself is great, has a ton of components, and the new visual style is great. My main issue is the game is so, so long, and military seems too strong. Once you fall behind you tend to stay behind, which is also a huge bummer for a game that can take 3-4 hours.
I think this game might be too long to consider playing with a higher player count, but this game works great with 2 players.  After 3 plays, I can say that this is one of my favorite games.  I can't wait to play more times and build up better strategies and explore the military options further.
*Never actually played the physical version, and not sure I would!* …But the digital version really brings out the game’s strengths, and with the expansion and rebalanced cards, it really is a very good, very replayable game. Finely tuned balance, epic in its own way - the cards are excellent at distilling big Civ/4X concepts into essentially a spreadsheet game.
This abstract civilization game is like 7 wonders' grown up brother, much longer, more demanding, less forgiving. The complexity rating here is a bit too high for my taste since the game is smooth to play and not extremely hard to master. The game's length seems to add to the value for many players.  The lack of any catch up mechanism, in fact the game tends to punch you in the face when you're behind, combined with the length is an issue for me though. Also, the game is a slight bit too luck dependent for my taste with more than two players, and it ignores the Ancient Times for a large part, which is a shame for a civ building game.
Haven't played it enough to be truly certain, but on the surface I agree with every single change made vis the original so far.  When the original was so good, that says something.
The best board game ever. The strategies are very varied and with the expansion  especially, the replay value is really good. I enjoy playing it both on digital version and in the board version. I will never get tired of this game.
The new version is definitely better, although it isn't a night and day difference, more of a subtle nudge. The game can be slow and ponderous, but that's my jam.
Since I own the digital version I didn't play the board game any more (it's a shame ...). In my opinion the best civ-game.
What a beast of a game! And one that is pretty punishing as well. Really impressed with how much is going on down there!
[u]w kolekcji[/u]: [url=https://www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgameexpansion/280833/through-ages-new-leaders-and-wonders][color=#FF0000]- Liderzy i Cuda [/color][/url]  + cyfrowa wersja
The rating would be higher if it wouldn't take so much time. There's also too much bookkeeping, it's easy to forget something. Still, if we manage to finish a game, it's a great experience! Edit: Much faster on Board Game Arena.
Boardgame version is way too fiddly. Was just not my game. It's ok but hasn't aged well in my opinion.
This is an excellent tableau building/civilization building card game.  Super fun, but a bit long for our taste.
Yes it is better than the original, but both get a 10!
I've played the app version of the game almost daily with my boardgaming-friends for several years now, and it's still fun/interesting. The replayability is astonishing. The choices are still meaningful and no clear optimal strategy has emerged, even though you have lots of freedom to shape your civilization. A genial game from a genial designer.  However, it is very time-consuming to play as a boardgame, so I would actually recommend the app more than the boardgame version
[thing=182028][/thing] is a civilization game that is basically made of cards and some tokens. The games takes you from Age A, I, II and III, making your civilization pass through leaders, new political orders, technologies and developments regarding: farms, mines, arena, labs, libraries, temples, theaters and infantry - this are general names, don't take them to the letter (like, journalism is a library development, airforces are also infantry, and such). The winner is the player with the most culture by the end of the game, but during the game you will have to manage other things as well: food, resources, army, hapiness, population and ideas (is with ideas that you "discover" new techs, new political orders, new military units, and so on). Everything is important, and you can use them in different ways to achieve the same goal (more culture).  A player turn has two main phases: political phase and action phase. In the political phase you can start wars, agressions and treaties towards the others civilizations, and also you can play events, that will trigger latter, and thus you can prepare for it. In the action phase you use the avaiable actions to increase population, discover techs, put people to work, build wonders, put a leader in play, and other things.  However, the game doesn't [i]fell[/i] as a civilization game to me - I could basically be building one factory, improving machinery, hiring CEOs, disputing for selling deals, making advertisement and market wars and agressions, etc, and things would feel the same to me. Maybe I'm too visual person, but the lack of a board, miniatures, or tokens representing the armies, the new colonies, take away the sense of place, distance, size and quantity. I can't see and army closing in. I don't attack a given place, I just... attack the whole civilization, not a region, nor an important city. [thing=182028][/thing] is way more abstract than I like my civilization games.  As I'm not a very experienced player of the old TTA (9 plays total), the differences between the editions, while noticiable, weren't enough for me to even feel playing a new edition. It was mostly the same for the bigger part of it.  The main difference I did notice was: the military. As more often than not, in the old TTA, the game will be basically an arms race, in which the players try to build the biggest military might in order to beat someone else. And, as it worked, many times the one to be crushed won't be the leader. Will be the one with the weakest army, and this can (or can't) be the leader, but it won't matter all that much. Then, things can go to the "bullying" side, because, if someone attacks you, and you defend (using cards and sacrificing units), you open your civilization for an attack of the next player, and again, for the next (considering a 4 players games, in wich the next player after you attacks you), with you getting weaker everytime (and, thus, making even better to attack you). I really do not like this aspect of the old TTA.  Now the New TTA doesn't allow for sacrificing units. Also, every military card can be used (the the limit of military actions) to add a +1 in defense. This works really well to prevent some early agressions and, if no one could open a big lead in military, even wars in mid-game. Agressions will still happen ocasionally (as they only cost military actions, but have no other downside for the attacker), even if only to make someone discard cards. Also, the Tatics cards being public after one round is also a neat change: more then one time in the old TTA I would search for a fitting Tatic to no avail - now I can copy one someone else used. Simple and very helpful.  There was also several changes in leaders, yellow cards (adding options), and so on - but these were too minor for me to properly make statements about them.  The downtime (even with 3p) is still severe.  In the end, [thing=182028][/thing] is still not a game that fits right with me. Though it is pretty solid, I'm more of a visual person, and the lack of map, units, distance, areas and so on, make TTA too abstract to my tastes. The new TTA sure is, to me, an improvement over the older one, and I recommend it for those that liked [thing=25613][/thing], but were turn off by the military aspects of it. While one can't simply leave the milirary to the wind and go all peace and love, you will be able to do a little more of that here.
Very good game and I like pretty much everything about it in theory.  The whole running your empire via playing worker cubes gives me a strong Civ4 city management vibe and I loved Civ4.  In practice, I'm only moderately in to playing it and I'm unsure why.  At lower experience levels, the game can definitely feel random.  Ages where the technology you need coming at the end are painful and failing to draw a good tactic or aggression at the proper time can feel crippling.  However, I've been soundly beaten repeatedly by players who are better, so clearly most of that randomness can be mitigated and handled.  The game is unquestionably long, but I like plenty of other long games.    There's just something about the total package of this game where I look at it and think I should rate it a 9-9.5 and instead it's one where I periodically think positively about playing it, but then never actually suggest playing it.
I am primarily a wargamer, but this is an absolutely brilliant design that exceeded my wildest expectations.
Sure it feels epic but that is overshadowed by it being too long, having too much downtime, being too much of a solitaire. And it's ugly.
Sid Mayers Civilisation is the theme. Build mines, fields, invest in science and entertainment to gain resources and keep your city happy. Build monuments and wonders to gain a unique advantage. Develop and grow your army to deal with random encounters and the attack from other players. Plays well with 2-4 players
One of the very best games. The ultimate puzzle. Very rewarding.  I feel like the captain of a vessel when playing the game. I have to read the conditions and adapt to them. Turning around one's civ takes time and the time that flows by bewteen me setting the helm and my civ hitting the intended course is deliciously agonizing.
Get ready to push a lot of cube. Excellent exercise in effeciency and planning. Really loved this one and can't wait to play again. It is a bit long, but time flies so fast playing this one because you are always planning something. I would definitely not recommend it with 4 players, because it would be too long. 2-3 seems like the sweet spot for this one.
For me right now......the best game in the world-  I like playing with four but three may be the better number
Players: -;  Best: - Time: -m;  Difficulty:  Category: 
Own the app. Fan of Sid Meier's Civilization games, I cannot but this game outstanding. So rich and demanding. It is truly an amazing game and deserves its high ranking. 
Great game. Give you a multifaceted feel for creating a civilization. Surprising that it works so well in the abstract - no map. A long haul, so you definitely need to have multiple hours or multiple sessions put aside for it. Tough to catch up if you fall behind.
I started out loving this. The first few times the tension of the game into the second age was addictive. I always felt like I could have made better decisions and I wanted to do more (can't do everything in this game and the tension is delicious).  Then subsequent plays reveal that the game is essentially a combo assembly puzzle and they who make voltron, win. End of the game always feels abrupt and vaguely unenjoyable. Wars are very difficult to profit from making the military side of the game feel poorly implemented. It can wreck you if you ignore it but there's not a lot of feel good in it should you pursue it (military side of the game).  Needs another iteration to get this right.
Way to completed for what it is. I don’t have time for a game like this. Neither the time to learn it nor to play it.   Liked the idea of the game way more than the execution. 
Unbalanced for 2 players when playing without wars and aggressions.  I don’t like aggressive games. So this is not for me.
Great game based in civilization evolution. Very long game and very difficult to analyze the game situation during the game.
Uno de los mejores juegos de mesa de toda la historia. Personalmente me encanta, tambien lo juego en la app que crearon.   Lo super recomiendo para todos los amantes de Age of Empires y juegos de civilizaciones
Only reason this isn't a 10 is because of how long it is and how much of a slog it can be.
I like civilization games a lot, and when I learned that this very well-loved member of the genre was created by the designer of Codenames, my desire for it shot up quite a lot.
More streamlined version of the original. Also the Military tactic system upgrade is really great
Great 4x game w/ a lot of depth. I've only played 6 games, ready for more.
NIS; Great game, just haven't been able to get it to the table. I played online and that was great, but it was a bit long for me. 
We didn´t have fun playing this. We won´t be playing it again.
Great improvement over the original!  Still a little too much focus on military in a 2 player game, but the swings aren't as big.  Love the new end of turn maintenance mechanics and the way military is handled, especially tactics.
Great update to a classic that really smooths out gameplay and balance. The number of tactical decisions that are available is truly astonishing.
No doubt better than old version: faster, more fluent, military more balanced. Over sized box is the only drawback if compare to previous version. I give 9 but I'm not happy with the ending of this game. Most cards become useless in the last Age, intriguing atmosphere of previous ages is lost, you have the only task to finish some super-wonder or etc. Ending turns to boring mathematical AP.
Das beste Civilization Spiel, welches jemals produziert wurde. Selbst zu 2. braucht es 3-4 Stunden, manchmal sogar länger. Kann man super als App spielen, aber in der Sammlung braucht man mindestens 1 Hardcore Fan, damit man hier auf seine Kosten kommt.
Played the app only - imagine the card ruffling would get a bit annoying in the real game. Too heady for me - can never beat even the easy AI. It is indeed rated at 4.4/5 for heaviness – I prefer no higher than around 3.5 to enjoy myself and it not feel like Year 10 physics homework. Probably just don’t ‘get it’. Can’t like every top 50 game I spose. Much prefer an intuitive version of the same idea like Sid Meier’s computer game Civ 5, which does a much better job at simulating civ growth. Complex modelling with cubes and cards is of course a big ask, and my brain can’t create the assumed modelling space from this to engage me in the fate of my fictive civilisation. Terraforming Mars suffers from the same problem for me - it’s too zoomed out to give me any emotional engagement.
Great game - long, so not best with 4, unless you have most of the day. Great sense of progression.
The more games I play, the stronger my impressions grows that this is the most balanced, deepest heavy strategy game of our time.
Played this and the original Through the Ages a combined total of more than 50 games before I started logging plays. Brilliant game, too little time to play it as much as I want to.
Quizas todavia no he aprendido bien las mecanicas del juego. Demasiado repetitivo en algunos puntos. Entretenido. Solo contra AI.
I have played this a lot on the android app, which is fantastic. I am going to sell my physical copy however, as i can never get it to the table.  -too difficult to teach -too long -too many fiddly rules to remember, cubes to push along tracks, etc.
Grana. Długo czasu pochłania. Muszę dokupić dodatek.
Excellent game that captures the feeling of civ building. Unfortunately it can also capture the pace of civ building and take ages.
Came across as confused and patchy.  A lot of thought has been put into this design bug for me it didn't work and came across as overly complicated and not much fun.
Puuuh this game is really really good. But it`s a really heavy game and 4-6 hours easily. Afterwards you`re absolutley destroyed.
I don't think I ever finished my first game of this, but it left a very good impression.
It doesn't get any better, it is the best Civilization building game in the world. Fairly complex to learn . I would recommend watching the videos, downloading the digital version and playing the tutorial. One thing I like so much is the is always changing and winning or losing can come down to your last move. 03/02/20 There is not another game better on the planet. The digital game is outstanding. The developers put together a completed experience of playing the card game plus it tracks everything, which spoils you.
Only played half a game with a friend, but it’s obviously very good.
I love this game but must of my board gamer friends find it too difficult or complex to get into. I recommended playing the excellent app version in order to get familiar with the mechanics. Each playthrough is different and challenging in so many ways.
Disclaimer: I have only played this game with two players, which I've read here is not ideal.  I thought I would love this game a lot more than I do.  I absolutely love the computer Civ games and have played them for years.  This game strikes a fantastic balance between emulating all of the complexity of its digital muse and creating a manageable tabletop experience.  The artwork looks great too.  However, the reason I'm not a big fan of this game is that, at least with only two players, there's very little interaction with others. Most of your turn time is spent trying to figure out exactly how to optimize the play of the cards available to you, and order greatly matters, so "take-backs" abound.  I'm sure that player to player interaction increases a lot with a four-player game, but that brings me to my other big (and related) criticism. Because the game incentivizes you to carefully optimize better than your opponents, players spend a good amount of time on each of their turns - all the while everyone sits around bored because there is very little about what your opponent does on their turn of optimization that directly affects you.  Still, Through the Ages has plenty of redeeming qualities, so I'm giving it the benefit of the doubt with a 7/10, pending a play with the full four players.
Best card game period! Hard to think it can get better than this. Definitely going to get my hand on each expansions.
The undisputed king of civ games. Through the Ages proves that you don’t need a map to feel like you are building your own unique civilization. Through a very smartly designed resource system where you are constantly managing two separate tracks, often at the expense of the other and genius card play, your civilization grows and flourishes as time marches on. This is a demanding game that requires your full attention because a false move early on can spell disaster as costs increase and actions get more complicated. Overall, this game is a masterpiece and represents Vlaada at his absolute best.
One of the 3 best games ive ever played, its only drawback is that it is a really long game.
Like the game a lot but gameplay with a full day is much to long for this kind of game in my eyes.
Never played the previous edition, but this is definitely the best Civ game I have played so far. The rules are surprisingly easy to grasp, while decisions are hard to make - just the way I like my games. Constantly tuning your engine just to keep progressing is challenging and fun. There really is no single area in which you want to lag behind. The only reason why I do not score this game any higher (yet), is because downtime is pretty bad with four players and game length is longer than I would prefer. I did feel like even the "short game" outstayed its welcome in the end. Curious to find out if game length improves on our second play. UPDATE: Played again (with four), and it was only a little faster than before. Really enjoy playing it, but the game is just too long to be wanting to play it again soon.
They took an already perfect game and made the impossible: turned into an even better game.
It's undoubtedly a great design, but the strategic wall I ran into about 80 games into it's predecessor still holds here, and I haven't had the heart to bash my head against it more for what feel like decreasing rewards.
this one is my favorite euro-cv like game!!!a trully masterpiece,i love the new twist to the rules. and i LOVED the new artwork,i hated the previous one!!!! its only problem(a serious one) is the HUGE downtime and that this is a long game!!!
Best with 3.  Expansions: Through the Ages: New Leaders and Wonders
My favorite game, and a huge improvement on the original, which I also rated as 10.
Epic civ game that is ruined by fiddly gameplay and prohibitive length. Verdict: BORROW
Love everything about this except the player boards!! They should have included 3D player boards. Besides that, exellent game!
Too long and spun out for us. The requirement to at least rougly capture civilisation development forces the game into long cycles. Moreover, player interaction is mostly about war and aggression making for a constant arms race (again fair enough for the story, but not something we like in our board games). 
Played the app version only, and not the physical game. The physical version is deemed almost unplayable by friends, and while the overall game is great, the accounting and little bits management drags it down. The app version is a perfect way to play this game.   I will revise the rating once I played the physical game, as I believe BoardGameGeek rating is intended for actual board games. I rated it now just to add it to my Collection.
It's an above average game, but nothing I'd consistently play. Fairly fulfilling for the playtime, but not amazing.
This game is great. I could play it again and again, if it weren't for the length of the game. The game would not be the same though if it was made shorter.
Very nice, smart game. It is a little bit long, and expensive, but it's really fun. I recommend it for the most professional players.
I didn't fully appreciate this game until I got the app. Now I love it, but I can't imagine a face to face game.
Modern classic card driven civ game that isn't as hard as it looks, but it is a "lifetime to master game".
After 4 games played : it's simply the best Civ game I ever played ! The only negative point I see is the duration (never less than 3,5 hours with 3 players) but some players consider this as a good point so I don't take it into consideration in my rating.  Awesome game, entirely awesome game !!!  9 because I refuse to rate 10 for anything at all :)
Played it twice, loved it! Not for everybody. It requires a lot of focus so you wont mess up the rules. Been playing the digital edition.
Made many great improvements on the original, but a few of the combat-related changes make military buildup seem less useful. The length still keeps it from being a 10.
March 2016 last update - 10th Oct (2017) Mateusz (375): 11 Paulina(297): 9 
Very strategic game and very fun to play, luck also takes an important role if you are going warlike. The digital version saves a lot of time and is much cheaper, whereas it also has an outstanding tutorial that the new players will find absolutely friendly and attracting. Besides, the digital version includes a collection of challenges that has taken this game to a whole new level in terms of fun and challenging. The game's only problem to me is that it is hard to acknowledge what other people are doing simply because there are too many factors that even looking at my own board is mentally struggling such as what should I do next turn, should I take that card, do I have enough resource to complete my wonder next turn so that I won't lose it because of the age change. It gets better in the digital version where everything is labeled plainly on a single board and lets me have a better concept of what my opponents are doing. But overall, the game is pretty exciting except some people would be thinking for a century to try to work out something, which really makes the game slow and boring sometimes.
Excellent. I definitely need to get many more plays of this in. I love the Civ games, and this feels like an amazing tabletop interpretation. While it's probably best with 3, the 2 player game was great.
Is one of those that rarely sees the table due to the play time necessary, and can suffer from being one of those games that you go and do your taxes between turns.  It's better than many other civ building games I've seen, but in future plays I'm looking to house rule a couple of things. Specifically the public building limit seems one too low at every phase of the game, such that there are a bunch of turns during which you can't draft a card because you don't have the space for it in your hand because you need two more turns for enough science to get something out of your hand that will make the next thing out of your hand cheap enough to play at all, and you just end your turn with 4 or 5 actions available two or three turns in a row because there's nothing else to do with them.
This game would be a 10!  It IS on the app.  The physical version gets dropped to an 8 because of its length and fiddlyness with upkeep.  The custom acrylic player overlays from Board Game Innovation that I bought help with this. https://boardgameinnovation.com/shop/through-the-ages/through-the-ages-a-new-story-of-civilization-overlay
Players: 2-4 Weight: 4.38 Time: 2 hrs. ——————————————— Sleeved
The first hour of this game is excellent- and the second hour is alright. Unfortunately, the game keeps dragging on, and on, and on. I don't have a problem with long games, the issue was that it became clear who the winner was far before the end was in sight.  Update: This game is great among experienced players, especially online on Board Game Arena where setup is automatic, and solves the downtime issues mentioned. Experienced players will be more likely to keep the game competitive until the last turns, where there are many opportunities to gain points. Lots of opportunities for strategy and decisions.
Only interested in complete games in Excellent condition.  Thanks!
I've only played this on the app, never in person... and honestly I can't imagine that I would ever want to. As so I've removed my high (9) rating. The game is brilliant, but it's also a massive skill curve, very lengthy, and painfully punishing. I absolutely love all of the systems, the myriad of strategies you can pursue, ways you can execute a turn, synergies to try... but at the same time you might just play through an entire game and not get a certain type of card and just never be able to rebound. You could be crushing it in score, one other person decides to go all military and gets the lucky cards they'd need to knock you down from first to last in the final hour. These are all fascinating archs, but sitting down and going through that in person? All of the down time between turns, the potential frustration of just never even mattering in a match. I don't think I'd ever want to experience that in person.
Fantastic game that is worth the long play time. Gives a sense of 7 wonders but a better experience.  The more I've played this game the more I've unpacked within it. It's grown on me but I will only play it in the digital form most likely.   I would like 1 play in person but I just can't see that being superior to digital play.
This is a great game! There used to be other 10s in my collection, but no longer. From now on this is going to be the only 10.  Agonizing decisions, epic come backs. There is never enough in this game and you need to be creative. While rules are quite simple, game situations are endless.
Great game really puzzle-y can't wait to play again.  The app is also pretty good but I prefer the physical cardboard space to the digital space. 
Played it a lot on www.boardgaming-online.com - 33 wins, 17 losses, as of 11.12.2016. Retired now :) Played it twice with physical copy, before ever playing online, won once.
Card based game where you build your government, food and building production, build wonders, hire leaders.  It's played over 3 ages and is very, very long. Was not a fan of the war elements.
I enjoy playing the PC version (on Steam) and the iOS version, and my rating is based upon that.   But my gut tells me that tracking everything while playing the board version would be horribly fiddly. So much so that I traded away my physical copy while it was still in shrink wrap.
I'm usually in the mood to play this, but it does have some issues. The length and lack of threaded turns gives way to too much down time. Many people either complain of the strength of military or whine that the game isn't interactive enough. I think Civ games are probably the only games that can bring different types of players together. This isn't quite dynamic enough to justify it's length, but the matrix of decisions gives me enough to be engaged. The game is about 70% of the way to being great. As it stands, its a re-dressed worker placement game.
I’ve loved Civ games ever since playing Civ2 on the PC in the 90s, so this was always going to be highly rated for me. I just love the choices and the branching that each player takes from the same starting position. It can be brutal; you’ve got to keep up on all the tracks, but it’s the purest form of Civ I’ve played in a board game. I like that there’s no ‘dudes on a map’. It’s simply about tech and advancements. Which isn’t to say military isn’t important - it absolutely is - but the idea of conquering territory in the vein of a typical 4x game isn’t there, which is a good thing IMO! Yes, it suffers from a good deal of accountancy, but it’s not that arduous and I imagine on further plays you get much more used to calculating your stats. Great game overall; one of the best I’ve played. Deserves to be in the top ten on BGG.
A difficult game to understand what you are supposed to be doing, but doing it correctly isn't that difficult. Possibly the ultimate balancing act in a board game. It doesn't feel worth the length and fiddlyness of tracking everything. Works better as an app. Might as well be a dexterity game by the amount of cubes and trackers you have to fiddly fuck around with.
It has been a while but I remember really enjoying this game. However, it took a long time to finish the game.
This is an amazing game, but the playtime and weight would probably keep it from the table for me. Can't wait to play again, but probably don't need this in my collection as most people I would play it with already own it.
A good game that just tries to be too much. My comments about the older version apply here almost exactly. The only changes are that the worst parts about wars has been solved since and the components are a lot nicer. Other than that this still is too much mechanics for a boardgame and this is better played on the computer or tablet. Nations(with expansion) has just further solidified it's status as the go-to card civ game because you actually play a game and get some immersion. Even if TtA has the clear advantage on paper and is clearly superior it just doesn't translate into the actual gaming experience. TtA just feels like a battle to remember all the tiny rules and cube movements and whatnot rather than a game of civilization development.
:star::star::star::star::star:  Very opaque game. I really like it. Simple mechanisms for its weight, but it's hard to play well. Low tolerance for lagging behind on any sector of the game (e.g. Military, Agriculture, etc), which makes it so sweet and satisfying.  Very good decision space. Every decision you make has a tradeoff and I love that. Several strategies to play and always compelling despite the long duration.  But the game takes a bit too long to play for my liking, a lot of cube pushing and track admin and card shuffling is a bummer
Received the game (2 November 2015) via a sponsored BGG Contest from late May 2015, shipped to my door from the Czech Republic. Awesome!
2–4 Players  Community: 2–4 — Best: 3 180–240 Min Playing Time Age: 14+  Community: 14+ Weight: 4.35 / 5  'Complexity' Rating  
I enjoy this game plenty, just like its predecessor [gameid=25613].  The basic mechanics of building your civilization without a map, and abstracting out the military to a track is a wonderful design choice.  The balance and decision-making is very well-done, and this is going to feel like what you want out of a Civ game, with a constant desire to get to your next turn, and lay down your new technology, and use your resources to grow your Civ.  It's still one of the best of the genre.  The changes made from the previous edition are all positive, from what I can tell so far.  Cards that were never used by strong players have gotten buffed, and cards that were almost always taken at 3 actions were nerfed.  Military has a more consistent application throughout the game, so that new players aren't quite as surprised when it comes into play in the last age.  The biggest problem I have with the old game is still present here, though, which is that the late game almost always devolves into a gigantic military standoff.  Wars over Culture, which steal points from one weaker player and give them to a stronger player, are even more powerful now.  This runs counter to the general rebalancing away from military that we were supposed to see in this new version.   Though I haven't played this version extensively, all signs point to it being just as present in the late game here, perhaps even moreso.  Experienced players can compensate for this, but this is brutal for newbies, and is the reason that I often reach for a different civ game instead.
A bit too much long and complex. But beautiful game
2016-10-16 - Bought BoardGameWarriors 2017-10-06 - Played the original ~ 200 times so 1st play of this was a bit unexpected with the card changes and all :) However, still a delightful game. Need to explore more!
Solo variants: https://boardgamegeek.com/filepage/128311/through-ages-new-story-solopractice-game-rules-v10
The best management based on civilizations. They all start to peer
 Games is great a big Bravo to Vlaada. The best TTA ever :)
An interesting puzzle with a lot of fiddly cubes. They're very nice cubes though.
Great game with very interesting choises, but the downtime is very very much. After a while this game is boring because you just wait and wait and wait. It is too complicated too, with too many minor rules to keep in mind. Hard to teach to new users. A civilisation game that is hardly playable even with 2 players is not a good sign. I do not understand the hype.
Miodzio. Uwielbam i zarazem niecierpie! Uwielbiam za prawie wszystko a niecierpie za to, że jeszcze nigdy nie udało mi się zrobić wszystkiego co planowałem!
Edit: Got the app highly recommend over the board game. App AI is good and is soo much easier to play, boardgame is hard to table as original review said.  Found a minor issue with the military deck after 3 or 4 games. You can draw max 3 cards and they are very situational. Brings a slightly annoying luck factor into the game.  Dropped rating from 10 to 9 for boardgame, 9.5 for app.  Brilliant game, will play when I can set aside the time. Normally don't like games that are long, but this one is a winner and the length is appropriate for the theme and type of game.  Every play is different with different combos of cards popping up at different times. Balancing the management of your economy, science and military is challenging and engaging without being too complex to keep track of.  The theme is pretty strong and most mechanisms are thematically grounded in a clear way.  Not for every gaming group so make sure that you have people prepared to dedicate 6+hours to a game before you buy it. If you have enough players, this is a must have game.
History of western white male civilization and I would have been totally ok with the game. History of civilation, assuming is human civilization, sorry I can't stand it.  "New world colonization with the great hero Cristoforo Colombo" aka genocide.  Every hero is a male (mostly white and western) but Joan d'Arc, the only female in all human history. Yes there's an expansion with some female heroes still... Marvels of the modern age: chain of fast food. Come on!!  Bad government, making people unhappy: communism and Islam.  This game has a clear political point of view and again I can be ok with it, just say that the bias is overwhelming, the ethnocentrism is the rule and I'll play along.
Digital version is the best! Wars are overpowered...
After +200 play throughs this is my favorite game. iOS app is excellent and while not extremely challenging against AI the online community is.    My group of board gamers own top 40 on BGG and unfortunately I ruined this game for us by playing it too much on iOS become very skilled at it and crushing my IRL group.   10/10 but addictive :)
Through the Ages   Un juego de cartas de civilización, juegos donde la meta es desarrollar tu facción, haciéndola crecer en población, nivel económico, poder militar, capacidad tecnológica de la mejor manera posible.  Toma de un Mercado de cartas a tu próximo líder que te darán una habilidad especial, acciones potenciadas, proyectos de monumentos, edificios o tecnologías civiles y militares, Lidia con eventos, combates y de exploración y lleva tu civilización a la victoria.  Podría decir que se siente ligeramente como jugar Age of Empires pero sin las batallas en tiempo real.
Not all plays are noted. Interesting and mindful game. Also because of cards - it is both good and not good time to time
Played this a bunch on mobile, but I still don't have a great grasp of the endgame, and the hard AI scorches me.  I've definitely lost more games than I've won, but I have beaten a solo hard AI game. It feels like the board game version of Civ, but I hate how I always seem to draw the short straw when I'm tied with someone else for lowest and I end up being the only one punished. It's a very deep game, and I've only scratched the surface. I think it'd be too fiddly to try and play in person versus on the app.
As has been mentioned by others, the app implementation of this is one of the best digital versions of a board game to date.
P2-4 B3 D4.41 T4 2nd hand, sleeved?? RB not read Played 0 At Storage
An alternate history lesson in the making. A long one.
During game i fell week and nervous even if i am wining?!
Amazing how well this game replicates the classic Civilization computer game series. Very, very impressed!.
The epic civilization game which I'm happy to name the best game I have ever played. Huge amount of strategic and tactical depth. It's a commitment to play though, and I think I would never like to play it with more than 3 players. 
It's best civ builder ever made. And I love civilization games.
Solid game... Best strategy game so far. The BGG rank never lie :D
One of the best strategy game I have ever seen. Played only in app - that removes all that fiddling and players' mistakes from the game.
Own on app - I almost hate to say how much easier this is to play on your phone without the physical upkeep. 
Revised edition of "Through the Ages". Not different enough to warrant a different rating from the old edition.
A revised edition of my favourite game of all time. This is a MUST buy. 
Second edition with revised rules to make the game run smoother, but is still 2-4 hours. Nations remains better.
LONG GAME - but totally worth it. Best Civ Building Game out there IMO.
Can't find any fault with it. Complex, engaging and entertaining. Rewards attentive and strategic players and - when played again - presents differences that keep it interesting.
דרך העידנים. גרסה עברית של משחקי ליאם 08.06.2021 סטימצקי מבצע של כללית-הולכים
I have the game on Steam. More I play the game more I hate it. This is not my style of game at all. It is way too long and unforgiving. I play games for fun. This is not fun.
成為創造歷史的ㄧ員，機制是如此的融洽，沒有違和感。 帶入感十足，戰鬥與效果卡完全振奮人心。 計算與策略是完整性的，容易沉溺於其中，深深的品味。
Very fun game, but not in the board game form - I prefer the app which handles all of the calculations for me.
Fantastyczna gra al poziom zadowolenia maleje :( + Cuda i lidzerzy
My favourite board game of all time  + very addictive strategic boardgame, hours fly by. + every move matters  - long,about 4-5 hours with 3,4 players
own digital 10/10  But i think its a bit messy as boardgame -1
I still haven't played anything other than the introductory game, but the improved components and artwork are reason enough to upgrade to this new edition.
Takes for ages more like!  The main game has too many mechanics - all of them are simple but it just takes a great deal of time to I feel the IOS App is far superior! It automatically calaculates all of the minor actions making the game far more fun.
This is an improvement on the original in every way. The components are stellar, with the highlights being the new artwork and almost perfect player boards that make setting up a breeze. I also really like the new military tactics system, as it feels more realistic compared to the old system and it really does add some interesting options for your military actions.  While this game deserves longer, more involved comments...I kind of already did that for the original :). 
Un peu long à apprendre mais quand même vraiment cool
I wish this game wasn’t so long, because I would play this game all the time.  All the things I love in games-strategy,tactics, tension this has.  
Played once, never stopps again! This game is highly addictive and offers so much in-game depth, it is incredible. Moreover, this is a really big game - so it seems at first glimpse - but if you play it a little bit you begin to understand how easy and well tuned the main mechanisms are. The game itself is not so gigantic and intimidating as it seems. On the contrary, this game will show you quite fast how lovely it really is! Nevertheless, I would recommend not to play it with 4 players. The mechanics do not mesh as perfectly as in 1 vs.1 or 3 players game.
Good game, but the time commitment really hinders getting it to the table. Also it's a bit dry.  It just doesn't get to the table that often.  It's also quick to play on a tablet, to get the Civ fix. 
Есть приложение на телефон ДЛЯ ТРОИХ https://disk.yandex.ru/d/0uLHmoXooHNmn 
#digital #note - need another 1-2 passes learning, then play - play solo on the digital PC/steam version to finish learning (serviceable, not great digital version) - 1st play - didn't love it, art and mechanics felt too dry; 2nd - appreciate the art more, managed to do draft cards pick a leader and build buildings in Era A - ranked #12 all time
The more times you play, the better it gets. The game has amazing mechanics and a solid pace of gameplay, which make it very enjoyable to play.
It's still a very good game, and this is better than the original, but I don't think the new edition does quite what I'd hoped it would. I like that early culture is now viable, but yellow cards, which were already close to too good, got better. Iron and Coal is still too expensive a path, except in peaceful games (which shouldn't exist). Several Age 3 techs are just bizarro expensive and will almost never be built.   And the new military means that parity through Age 1 and 2 should produce exactly no conflict, while Age 3 will produce predictable wars if enough disparity is allowed. I don't miss kingmaking, but the new method loses some tension. Not allowing sacrifices also reduces the importance of a strong food (and to a lesser extent, rock) engine; you can't leverage a "wipe out and build back up in one turn" process, again robbing the game of tension and options.  It's just a safer, smoother experience, and it's both better and worse for this. A 9 via BGO interface, a 6 FTF (too inefficient).
Very much a perfect game in my pon. Some may say the card drafting leads to luck and uncertainty but it is okay to me, as I reckon a historical development is exactly based on numerous unpredictability, some may be good and some may be bad to you but what we've got to do is try our best to mitigate.    The iOS version is perfect implementation and the tutorial is one of the very best I have ever tasted. Highly highly recommended.   (further remarks) As most of us mentioned, the sweet spot for this game is strictly 3 persons. Would be too chaotic and long for 4 persons while some interesting elements (like alliance) will be missed out with just 2. 
(rating this based on the old version, and reading a list of  changes. the game seems definetly better, but my main issues with it are not fixed. although that would make it another game, so it's understandable)  There's a lot of things I really like about the game, but the point-at-one-person nature of wars and agression is something I can't stand. I think that is simply a design flaw. This is the main reason for my rating.  (btw this is based on one play, where I was the agressor, and won the game, but I almost didn't want to do it, but I said, okay let's play the game how it was designed. it seems it was designed for this, because I won)  There is also considerable luck with the cards, some of which is fixed by the new edition. The game is also very long, which is understandable from a mechanisms viewpoint, but I'd just rather play two or three or ten other games. Also this length means that other than taking some interesting cards, you never really feel you did something big, but then again, just taking a card is not too interesting. I actually like the fiddly administration part of the game, but it never felt like it really mattered other than to not make mistakes there.  I guess I should try the simple game without agression.  edit: I did try the simple game. It's clearly not what the game was designed for, it's only maybe good for learning the rules. Didn't help my opinion.
Civilization games appeal to me and this one must be so highly rated for a reason.
Sleeved. With geekmod.pl wooden insert and plastic organisers for player counters.
This is the game that made me re-evaluate whether I like civilization games. It does a fantastic job of making you manage populous, culture, resources, science and tech, military, and politics. There are tense (and interesting) trade offs between these things at all times. While there is definitely some randomness brought on by the card draw it's not as much as you'd think when you first start playing.  After more plays, I've realized I don't love the military piece of this game. It's too easy to bash the person in last place in a way they can't recover from. But also, they can do well points-wise and still feel bad because they're constantly being picked on.  This is less of an issue in the two-player game or you can opt to remove the aggression cards altogether. This is definitely my preferred way to teach new players (as the rulebook suggests) but I can't decide if I prefer that overall.  In general, this is a solid civ game and I want to play it more. It takes a long time to play, but it's scale allows for comebacks that are pretty fun.
First of all - this is a brilliant design, I love it to death. The new edition looks absolutely gorgeous. I'm really fascinated by how all these different layers of strategy come together and form a deep and rewarding game. It's just wonderful.  But in order to fully enjoy this game you have to play with the right people and with the proper attitude. Because although Through The Ages is amazing, it's also not without its flaws:  1. This game is really long when played with inexperienced players. When I play 1v1 with a pro, we finish the whole game in less than 2 hours (I didn't believe it could be done, but it's really possible once you know all the cards). Unfortunately, a 3p game with novices can last up to 6 hours (I'm speaking from experience here). It also generates an extreme amount of downtime which gets longer and longer as the game progresses. I can't imagine playing it with 4 players, you would have to wait 10 minutes before your turn arrived. Either play with pros who know the game well enough to make fast turns or stick only to 2P games.  2. If you fall behind on the military track in a multiplayer game you'll be eaten alive by your opponents. Stronger players will be "preying upon the weak" and successful wars/aggressions will lead to a devastating snowball effect (not a good thing in a 4-hour game). It will take you many games to learn how to stay competitive in the military area without neglecting the culture engine.  Just be aware of what you are getting yourself into and you will have a fantastic time with this game. It is a masterful design, but I won't lie - sometimes it can leave you with mixed feelings regarding the final outcome of the game, it's very unforgiving. But you'll want to play it again - I promise.  [b]/update, February 2019:[/b] Since its release on Steam/Android I play TTA almost exclusively online these days. But I still prefer playing it in person whenever I can (I will play it exclusively with 2 players this way though).  [b]//update:[/b] Get the expansion if you can, it introduces tremendous variety and opens up the game even more!
行動點機制，輪到時分配行動點去做各種事：買牌、打牌、升級、招募、建造等，雖只用卡牌和軌道卻能體現一場文明的進程且選擇不少，遊戲會在卡牌抽完3時代沒牌了再一輪結束結算計分。 其實很早前就玩過但太久了，這次補了Steam版開始先玩教學關，真的滿方便自動結算的，數值多少要花多少一目了然不必自己在那邊算，可以專心在自己想要的行動和卡牌效果，或偶爾看看對手AI在做什麼，我好選些我能得分對手不能得的。 卡牌的推動雖然有一定隨機性，但就那幾張牌新老手的差別就在能知道還有什麼牌等會會出，我沒玩幾次基本就主要避免軍事力比對手低，有好的殖民地搶佔，食物礦石科技發展跟不上有升級快拿或能暫時一次性補充的拿一下；繼續跑關卡玩。
I have over 50 plays on the app version but I am waiting to rate for a few more physical plays...but I do love this game.  UPDATE as of 11/7/19: I now have 174 online plays and I still show no signs of slowing. I love this game. If I ever rate any game a 10, this will probably be the first one.   Current Online Games Played: 308
FANTASTIC GAME! the only problem is time. You have to be sure that your free for 4 hours, at least.
Creí que no me iba a gustar por sus características, que no son muy de mi estilo (civis en cartas, líderes por siglos, motor de construcción, etc.) pero me flipa absolutamente. Este juego es para jugarlo y mucho. Muy duro hacerlo bien.
Really intelligently made and balanced. Really enjoy this game!
I play the app version at least once a week. Incredible depth of strategy and development. If you want to get the brain going, this game will fill you up quick!
As a game it's a 9 or more. Playing it live is too long and boring, managing all the scores, the rules and so on is too complicated. Played against AI or online it shines incredibly and i adore it. Anyways , I had to buy it
It's ok, but: -too long, player's simply gets bored and no longer follow moves, other players do -you feel most of the time, like you could done something better, that you have done something wrong and you have to fix it now. You don't have that feeling, that you did a great civilization and led it through the ages
A while back a few, I played a game of the original Through the Ages online with my co-workers. It was a memorable experience to say the least, with a back and forth swing of power as we would all ebb and flow with power through the ages. I wanted the game, but avoided it due to its length and age.  When I saw that Czech Games was printing a new edition with greatly improved art and some rules tweaks, I was interested. However, I saw that Eagle Games would be publishing and I wanted to figure out a way to avoid them if possible. At the time of my purchase, the only way to get Through the Ages: A New Story of Civilization was through Eagle Games and it was running $70. Weirdly, it was cheaper to buy the Czech Games version from France than it was to buy it from Eagle Games. Crisis averted!  When the game arrived I knew I wanted to play it soon and I knew I’d have to employ some aggressive tactics to get my wife to try it out, but I also had a strong suspicion that she’d love the game. So, one night I setup the game and started briefly explaining the game, just bits and pieces and the overall flow of things and I told her that I wanted to play it tomorrow and that since it’s long we can just break it up over two nights.  We sat down to play it the next night and you could hear how overwhelmed she was as she took in the rules and mechanics. Different kinds of cards; cubes that are, but aren’t workers; consumption, corruption, production, happiness, culture, science, and so on. Yet, about mid-way through Age I, I heard a night-and-day change in her voice, the sign that she understood what she was doing and had internalized the rules! Awesome news! With that, we were off to the races and the game picked up speed and we finished a bit past our normal bedtime, but not too late. She liked it, she liked it a lot, and that made me a happy teacher.  This game is a classic, one of those games people talk about fondly through out the hobby and I can see why. I love how the game moves and how you feel a sense of growth and grandness of scope. I suspect this game will be an easy sell to my game group, but either way, it’s sticking around.
Good game, starts heavy, but is a medium game after you played it once or twice. Replayability is also a bit lacking, because after a few games, you will know all the cards and possible outcomes.
Good game but far too long. I dislike only the fighting system. Missing a map let everyone attack everyone. And it motivates the strongest to attack the weakest... Except this: Epic Cilivization game! (The app version is great as well)
Just a few too many overly roundabout and convoluted rules away from being truly great. Everything about this game is excellent.
Another phenomenal title from Vlaada. While I abandoned the physical copy a while ago (it didn't resonate with Heather), I greatly enjoy continuing to play on the app. So much so, I wonder if I would ever choose to play it on the table again - the app completely removes the substantial admin and upkeep otherwise required.
Same comments as the original. Although I do like tweaks to the game play.
Through the Ages is heavy, abstract and long (about three hours) but the time-taken to journey from the dawn of civilisation through to the modern age feels very epic and is very rewarding.  It manages to capture the feel of the civilisation computer game without trying to replicate it.  The game does not provide any sense of geographic location (no map board) but everything else that might be expected of a civilisation-type game is present. 
They made an excellent game even better. Less downtime, easier to avoid AP. Simply one of the best games out there. 
A good game, but almost impossible to get to the table. MUCH better as a tablet game. Much less cube management.
It's really no wonder why this is so high up in the rankings. Solid game but I've yet to play it live so a lot of the score comes from the BGA version.  Still really liking it. So much going on and so many ways to win the game. Yet I don't go really searching for it in and still prefer to play many other games of the same length/weight so there's something about it that's quite taxing in a sense.  Only played online.
Every games will let you lead different strategies, though you always need  a bit of everything. Great theme and smart game !!  Tense game, almost stressful sometimes. I won't give a 10 though i own the game 'cause : -1 mistake / war lost = you almost sure to lose the game -Some aspects are too important and makes others almost useless -It is a very complex game
Great game that rarely sees the table in person, unfortunately.  The app is wonderful and sees a lot more play.
Eine der zentralen Spielabläufe in "Through the ages" ist der Karten-Umschlagplatz. Technologien, Wunder und Persönlichkeiten kommen hierüber ins Spiel und es wird einfacher / günstiger diese zu erhalten je länger diese ausliegen bzw. wenn diese in der nächsten Runde nach Links rücken. Um eine Technologie nutzen / entwickeln zu können benötigst du genügend Wissenschaft, genügend Nahrung, um die Bevölkerung zu vergrößern mit der du die Technologiegebäude besetzt. Und du benötigst natürlich genügend Baumaterial (hier Erz) um die Gebäude einer Technologie zu errichten. Während du dein Erz und die Bevölkerung aufwiegst, um deine Technologien zu verbessern, benötigst du auch noch Militär. Dies wird ähnlich wie die Zivilgebäude aufgebaut. Zivilisationen mit schwachem Militär können jedoch leicht von anderen ausgebeutet werden. Es gibt zwar keine Landkarte (Area-control) auf der du Länder verlieren kannst, jedoch können dir Ressourcen, Wissenschaft, Bevölkerung, Anführer oder Kultur verloren gehen. Es sollte schwierig sein mit sehr starkem Militär zu verlieren und sehr schwierig mit schwachem Militär zu gewinnen. Wer die meisten Kulturpunkte erreicht gewinnt am Ende des Modernen Zeitalters. ... Das Spiel ist eindeutig für Expertenspieler und für diese die beste Brettspielumsetzung, des wiederum erfolgreichsten Civilisations-Computerspiels Sidney K. Meier Civilization (Sid Meiers Civilization), welches wiederum vom ursprünglichen Brettspiel inspiriert wurde. Ähnlich wie bei Eclipse kann man die Stärken der Spieler / Zivilisationen von verschiedenen Attributen, wie Wissenschaftsproduktion, Zufriedenheit, Kulturproduktion, Militärstärke oder die Regierungsform etc. ablesen und entsprechende Strategien für die aktuelle Auswahl der Karten überdenken. Damit entsteht ein hoher Wiederspielwert. Es gibt keine überflüssigen, unausgegorenen oder dominanten Elemente. Die beste Reihenfolge der Züge variiert aufgrund der Auslage. Alle Elemente des Spiels greifen sinnvoll ineinander und müssen strategisch möglichst gleichwertig aufgebaut werden. Für mich eines der besten und herausfordernsten Strategie-Aufbauspiele.
This is a great game but it is no substitute for the real thing (Civ computer game). The digital version (not the app but the actual Sid Meiers computer game)is a much deeper and much more enriching experience. That said though, for a board game this does a fantastic job and I enjoy playing. My favourite mechanic in board games is some kind of engine building and this game has it in spades.  EDIT: Having played this game a number of times now it has grown to be one of my favourite all time games. The score has gone from 8.7 to 9.2.
This game is so amazing ... I just love the theme and the mechanics (although it does tend to be a bit long) ... only thing stopping me from giving it a 10 is downtime.   The new version does not seem like a huge change from the original version but it is all around improvement.  This is THE CIVILIZATION game. The abstraction of the map seems on paper something that will not work while in reality it is amazing, getting rid of the maneuvering of units while still keeping a huge tension of military race.      I own the app version (on PC) and I had great fun playing it as well (both against other people as against AI)
Digital version available (PC, Android and BGA Premium) and preferable vs Szczepan MichalAngello to Bach is great short game hack.
Only played on digital and only will EVER play on digital. game is to long in physical version vs the the amount of fulfillment i get.
If you don't play military cards, you will lose the whole game. MILITARY=win. Other strategies don't make sense
Excellent boardgame adaptation of the original Civilization computer game.  I loved the computer game and this boardgame gives me the same feel.  The game is engaging throughout.  My one play with 4 players was too long, but that may have been only because one of the players just didn't get how to play.  I enjoy it best with 3 players, but 2 is very good as well.  It takes 3-4 hours, but the time flies by when you're playing.  Update after 10 plays:  Bumped up to a 9.  The game is varied and engaging.  It's a constant balancing act that requires the player to respond to many competing demands.  I like to play even though I don't think I've ever won because I enjoy the feel of the evolving civilizations.  I like that the pace of the game quickens as the end approaches.
I wasn't massively keen on buying the same game twice but most of the changes I'd heard about beforehand sounded good so I was looking forward to this one. Happily, I won a copy in a BGG contest.
This game is so excellent. The mechanics are awesome - action point and a kind of card drafting, plus resource management. There are tons of strategies, and the game play is super tight. Yes, it's long, but it won't feel long when you're playing.
One of my favorite games (maybe my favorite?) - I play it on the app every day or so. Not sure I can give it a 10 because it's so much better as an app that cleans up the book keeping, and it's fairly hard to teach with a steep learning curve that I'd love to call "easy to learn, hard to master" - but I'm not sure that's true.
Long, deep, very strategic game. Rules-wise, it's pretty straight-forward, especially for a game of its depth. Wars and aggressions make sure player interaction is much higher than just card denial.
Location: Kallax Type: Strategy Sleeves: Mayday Games Premium 50x75
Amazing game! Works great on steam. Need to get a physical copy too! So good!
Great game. Can take quite a while, but it's pretty much worth it.
Dont know how to rate this game because I will never play it again in person. The board game is just too much to keep track of, but the app is the best game that I have ever played on my phone (eh Race for the Galaxy app is close). 
Surprinsingly well balanced game as for computer games adaptations. I have very mixed feelings about such attempts, but this one went really well. Rules are a little complicated at the beginning, but after understanding some corelations and imaginating relationships it becomes much clearer.  Comes with a good game organisation so the compexity is maintainable. It is far from being 1:1 copy of computer game, rather bringing the spirit of it into tabletop dimension - and it works, because tabletop is completely different experience than a video game.  The only problem I have is lenght - it's interesting until last turn, but somehow usually it looses our attention during play.  Also I miss some kind of end-game after last turn - some kind of last stage that could allow to make final step. Effectively last turn draws are always wasted. Probably there are some nice tips about that on the web.
To long, and most likely to repetitive in the long run between different games for our taste
https://apuntes-sin-papel.blogspot.com/2020/11/through-ages-una-nueva-historia-de-la.html
Deep gameplay, lot of replyability only downside 4+ hour game
Almost perfect gameplay, but still not up to date presentation.
TTA app is perfect though real game is a bit tougher to operate.
Only enjoy it with 2 players, with more players it‘s too long
Awesome game! Can get quite thinky and its not an easy game to get people into. Theme attracts me as a Sid Meijer Civilization PC-game enthusiast, and it works great. I like how this game presents tough choices and strategical variety. Full game is a bit long though, so taking a break between ages (or for the transition into the final age) might be a good idea.
Molt equilibrat. Sols he jugat en digital. El manteniment pot ser engorros, el tema de moure les cartes dl mercat, els cubets d'acció...
Took a few games to click, but this game is FANTASTIC. Each game is about adapting to the order in which the cards appear in that particular game. What works one game won't work another game, and that's excellent. The long-delayed digital implementation of this game is incredible, and was worth the wait. It has replaced the physical game for me, mostly because the game is much faster when the app handles the upkeep.
I quite like the way it plays. There's a certain cadence, an ebb and flow of getting things to grow your empire, while putting out fires here and there (with managing the production and population/happiness). Love to discover what cards are there and how to make them work. What I felt underwhelming was that I was expecting more variety in the cards. I wish it had crazy combo cards and/or wacky powers/actions. What I didn't like was some of the war/conflict cards. When they reward the strongest army only, I'm fine, but when they destroy the things that we've been building for the last hour or two... ok, get me out of here. Again, most war/conflict carts feel almost like and event that affects all players around, and those make sense to me. The targeted ones are the ones that I quite disliked.
( P - 2 [3] 4 }  Deep civ-building game that doesn't actually run long with experienced players. Three is our sweet spot.  Just describing the game is a beast. The game takes place over roughly 25 turns where players build their own civilizations by drafting cards from a shared pool and managing resources within their own kingdom. Culture is the victory point resource, but wars or aggressions between players can transfer culture to / away from a kingdom. So your final score is essentially how much culture you can create on your own plus how much culture you gain / lose from other players. Then players manage civil and military actions, science, food, energy, and several other supporting mechanics which help support everyone's bottom line - the culture engine.  The finesse in Through the Ages lies in understanding the interactions between those secondary elements. Over time, cards increase in power but also cost. So, for example, if you are deciding between Drama (2VP,1HF) or waiting for Opera (3VP,1HF), you are going to consider:  1) Can I afford the increased ore cost of Opera? 2) Can I put three people on Drama versus two on Opera and get near the same benefit for less ore, but more people? 3) Do I score more with Drama because I have to wait until Age 2 for Opera?  The core resources are ore and food. Spending food creates new people, and spending ore puts idle people to work either in military or civil service. Both resources contribute to your effectiveness - having all the food and ore you need lets you put the most people in the best positions - but you really never have all you need in every area, so it's a balancing act. Having more food and people but less ore incentivizes military because aggressions typically take ore from other players. Or, it makes cards like Shakespeare or Bach appealing because those leaders give benefits based on how many, not how much. Having fewer people and food but more ore incentivizes the creation of wonders and putting your people on the best possible spots, such as Journalism.  The secondary resources include civil and military actions, science, and political cards - mortar to the bricks of food and ore. There are six unique leaders every age that provide reductions in cost or benefits contingent on different parameters so every game plays differently and there is no one best strategy. You want to optimize but must also consider timing, synergy, and the capability of your opponents to interfere.  There are some clunker cards like Library of Alexandria or Bread and Circuses but the vast majority of cards are viable if you understand how they fit in to a larger picture. For reference here's a list of the game's all-stars:  Michelangelo St. Peter's Basilica Constitutional Monarchy James Cook Journalism William Shakespeare Air Force Fast Food Chains  As far as flaws go there's clearly some luck involved, e.g. I have colonies is James Cook at the top or bottom of the deck, or I'm drawing three military cards per turn and can't find an A2 tactics. Air Force is borderline-broken and I wish there were a few more tactics in A2 instead of some of the junk pacts / greens.  02/17/2020 - first version comments copied into second version.
Got the old one, traded it away because I was in a different place at the moment. With a different group.  Then got this new version and got the right group for it. Love it !
It's really an achievement (although with quite some iterations by now) how streamlined this beast of a game is. It's just hard to find the time or players who are willing to spend 3 - 5 hours playing it :D   Only managed to get it tabled once. Then found out the app and have been playing that one since and sold my analog copy. It’s just so hard to get it to the table. It simply plays too long and playing the suggested shorter option just feel like you played half of the game.
Perfect rhythm control and card balance, and when you think you're good at it, finding out that people who can't play it still can't give me more insight into the depth of the game
A great, well put together game that drags just a tad too much. The player upkeep and info management is also a little complex.
+ constants upgrading of your cards and purchasing others is motivating. A neat engine builder, which does nothing unique, but works overall good  o overall the concept of getting more food, more resources, bigger population, more culture (?) and better military seems just to make limit sense, and you will not learn anything about the theme   - European centric. Since this game is so much abstracted, I do not see a reason why to limit the pictures to the western history - I think Era A is too short. If you want to take the game serious as a Civ game, then it needs a longer Era A with pretty images. Also, a lot of other things are missing. The start should be 12 000 years ago, with a short Neolithic Era like Era A, than a normal Antique Era. So overall another Era added which would need gameplay adjustments. Since it's a quick game, I do not see a problem with a longer scenario - I do not like the interaction in this game. I have seen the takeaway aspect better in Agricola. The military fighting when specific cards occur is just boring. Normally I like to be very aggressive, but in this game I do not care, it's just boring  - - its not a civ game. It's an engine tableau builder with civ images on cards. It reminds me more of playing a bigger Domininion version, than playing a civ game - - - possible gameplay is limited. You can not play creatively. Its just an narrow optimization game. Nothing crazy can ever happen. Its same each time.
This game is amazing. Low rating simply because of its age and the number of times I've played it, hundreds of times.
This game is long... The amount of randomness to game length grates on me a little bit. I feel that to really be good at this game you'd need to play this dozens if not hundreds of times, this makes the game good as an app but as a board game, not ideal.
Best Civ. builder, epic scope, cons: too long, knowing the game may reduce playing time to 4 hours in a 2 player game, but with 4 (the best player account) I dont see it under 6 hours. Always play it with the pacifist variant (no war/agression cards).
i highly recommend getting this in order to satisfy your needs if you love to play a full game and spend few hours on it!its quite amazing as a game with many mechanics and playstyles which you can play and work with.FOr starters it will be a bit hard beucase you need to learn the rules,but after that it is very easy to play it.i highly recommend you to start playing with 2 player version at first,takes 4-5h a full game,then you can narrow it to 3-4h per full game,depends on the thinking time and how determined you are to play with your friend/s!! easy best buy so far!!
Note:  Sleeved with Mayday premium Sails of Glory sized sleeves.
A compelling and intricate game that is going to take me a while to learn properly. I look forward to exploring this more over the coming months/ years.  I'm getting a bit worried that I may never really get to the point where this game will hit the table often enough to justify keeping it.  < October 2016 > UKGE 2017
Brilliant civ game, love it, but runaway winners/losers seem possible, maybe...
I need to play this a lot more, but will rate it based on my excitement to get it back to the table.
This game is great. I love how everything fits together and how you really see a civilization building up. It's fun to come up with stories about the events and things going on.
Very complicated and fiddly, but offers a constant stream of small decisions.
Fun               8 Replayability     7 Interaction       8 Quality           7 Art               6 Theme             7 Balance           9 Pacing            7      Complexity        7 Strategy          7 Luck              6 Value             8
The game is brilliant. It's so engaging and building a civilization is such a pleasure that it doesn't matter to me so much if I'll win the game or not.
The best Civilization game you can get, it has everything, its like the civilization pc game made boardgame, and its better than the original civilization boardgame, one of my top 3 of all time.
Definately one of my top 3 games of all time. The different variants can make the game range from peaceful to brutal according to players' liking.
Another one of my favorites. The ultimate engine building game. Perhaps a little too abstracted for those looking for the perfect "Sid Meier on a board" game, but the best civ Game on the market, in my opinion
This is soo good, Im very intressted in history ( I got 3rd place in triennial history competition :D ) and this game is perfect for me, i really like heavy and rewarding games and it is very cool to look at everyone's civiliztion at the end of a game.   Sleeved!
A very well designed game but it's very taxing, so after I play it, I'm good for a couple of months
One of those games that i would be willing to play in every board game camp. It is interesting to watch how different each era is and how we go throu the time, or in this case "Through the Ages"
Fuck ist das Spiel sensationell gut. Danke Vlaada !!!
Good, but interaction in 2p game is almost insignificant. Liked the era's system.
A really good game. You must however be prepared to spend som two three hours.
Best and very kind and funny tutorial ever in an app, but the game itself didn’t catch me at all, especially the arbitrary combination of personalities and achievements of human history felt much less enjoyable then previously thought.
I keep losing but always want to play again. One of the deepest and longest games I've played. The theme comes through perfectly and the new rules make it perfect.
Includes Leaders expansion in the core box. No expansion box included. All items never played.
My all-time favorite game.   There's lots of fulfilling strategic and tactical options to explore. The only downside is that this game is best enjoyed with opponents of equal experience, which can be tough to find. I don't know if I'll ever have a chance to play this live again, but the digital implementation is flawless and ultimately, probably makes for a better experience than its cardboard counterpart.
I have the app and suspect I must play it pretty incorrectly seeing as how it's weight is 4.40 and I didn't think it was this complex?  At any rate, I didn't find it "fun" after 20 or so play throughs.  Maybe it works better on the table with a real person
Play the digital game! Fun game, but will probably never play the physical version again.
Wooow... now this is what I call, a top notch board game.  Difficulty level 4.42, really?!
100+ After playing the previous version numerous times, we started playing this one repeatedly as well. It is better than the previous edition and is outstanding.  This one is played weekly (or more often) for the last two years. Currently my son is beta testing the expansion online.
A very good strategy game but not my favorite. Possibly stems from the fact that my brother always crushes me
What made the original edition more than just another optimization engine euro was the brutally punishing military aspect of the game. That element appears to have been reduced. The "moral" rationale for removing the Holy War card is preposterous.
Played several times in person. An excellent game, though the economics are tough.
EN: my favourite game got fitting graphics (at last!) and rebalancing. What's not to like?  PL: moja ukochana gra zyskała odpowiednią oprawę graficzną (nareszcie!) i poprawione zrównoważenie. Super :))))
We all disliked that you can get seriously borked if you don't get a decent draw of cards so you may not be able to upgrade your mines, etc. The notion that specific mines, etc. aren't just available in a common pool is silly.   Overall it's an OK game but I'd never be willing to ask to play it as it just takes so long. There are vastly better games that play in a fraction of the time.  Prefer to play online as it does all the fiddly crap.
tightest euro ever, but i just don't want to play it anymore 
1.非常棒的游戏，就是比较难掌握，一旦玩明白了有点着迷。练习了很多次才能打败困难的电脑。游戏时间稍长了一些，在电脑上玩能节省一点时间。
Made great game even better with beautiful artwork and fine tuning to military and some cards. It is still not a 10 because it's a "perfect game" mechanically - old flaws (from modern-day gamer's perspective) remain: longevity, downtime, upkeep (although streamlined)... - it is a 10 because it is a 10-worth experience every time through. Biggest + for me is even stronger now - abstracting history while keeping phenomenal historical feel.  I only want to play this more and more... it may well be, with Twilight Struggle, the greatest game ever designed. You can always add some negative - for example I didn't mention that it's in a sense always the same game cause you always see all the cards (unlike let's say Nations).   But all analysis aside, this game has something special, and for me it's not just that it resembles Sid Meier's CIV, which I liked and played up till fourth installment, think it's a watershed in gaming, yet do not adore it.  TTA has something undefinable - unlike even TS or HIS/Fief which I can brake down to basic factors of greatness.   On the other hand - APP implementation is so good that it once again showed all the problems of the board game - upkeep and downtime at first place.
Complexity: 4/5 Depth: 4/5 Interaction: 4/5 Luck: 2/5 Thematic: 3/5 Replayability: 4/5  Main course
Great game but physical version is rendered obsolete by the app
2.  Avansert sivilisasjonsbyggespill. Mulig Kristin vil like dette.
My favorite game. Always want to play, just wish I had the time to play more. The tweaks made to the original bring this game to near perfection for me. Play mostly with 2, I like it with 3 and 4 more, but finding time and people is an issue. 
Este juego se ha convertido en mi favorito junto a Clash of Cultures. Through the Ages recoge en un juego de mesa toda la esencia del juego Civilization de PC. La sensación de ir progresando poco a poco con tu civilización desde la antigüedad hasta el presente (igual que en el juego de PC) es lo que buscaba. Además su reglamento es toda una obra de arte que consigue explicar a la perfección y con mucha claridad un juego de esta características. Y hay que decir que, aunque es un juego denso con muchas reglas, después cuando sabes jugar te das cuenta de que es muy fácil y fluye sin problemas. Otra historia es saber jugar bien... Otro punto a favor es su nuevo diseño gráfico respecto a la primera edición ya que éste es mucho más bonito y agradable a la vista.
I'm not able to appreciate this game more than I do, even if I understand it deserves a better rating.
Hurray, no more small tokens and tiny sheets! Small changes but for the good. Seems better balanced. Now all it needs is more cards to fill up the empty holes in the box.   The app of this game is really well done and I would even recommend to get the app instead of the physical boardgame. One of the best tutorials also. 
My rating system  Innovative : 10 Replay-ability : 10 Strategy/luck balance : 9 Components : 7 Artwork & graphic design : 4 Decisions : 10 BGG rating : 10 Rulebook : 4 Interaction : 10 No expansion needs : 7 —————— 9/10  I don’t like some leaders abilities.
Boring game, slow paced. Doesn't do any justice to actual history. It should be called a Story of Western Civilization as it mostly ignores contributions of the rest of the world.
Another Chvátil classic.  A great card-driven civilization game.  A ton of different options and ways to pursue victory!  Super interesting decisions and complex, but not insanely complex rules (enough to make everything interesting, but was boiled down to a 10 minute tutorial in the app (which granted, the tabletop version would require a few extra rules for how components are managed).  Disclaimer: I have only played through the app and BGA.  I have heard that the game is a bit more fiddly in the analog format.  But I would definitely still play it when given the option.
Prior to 2020: 1 play  There are some games that manage to enrapture me almost immediately, and which I cannot seem to forget, long after I've packed up the game.  Through the Ages epitomizes this mastery of design, and I can already sense that more plays of this could lead to it becoming one of my favorite games of all time.  Similar to my favorite game of all time, Race for the Galaxy, Through the Ages manages to create an immensely-crunchy engine building, tableau development game centered around a card economy and intensely significant opportunity costs.  The decisions of this game, especially given the cascading consequences they will have on one's opponents, are unbelievably tense and difficult, and the fact that there's so many unique cards and strategies to explore is immensely exciting.  The scope of the game also brings with it a sense of the rise and fall of civilizations, providing an epic feel to the game that few others can achieve.  Even still, there's significant adjustments needed throughout play, as players shift focus on their short versus long term goals, sometimes sacrificing one for sake of the other.  Further plays of this game will confirm just how much I like it, but I'm certainly immensely hopeful to see it continue rising in my appreciation and interest.
